Gwenevere Abriel: Aaron Smith no show due to win.
Gwenevere Abriel: reschedule.
Gwenevere Abriel: On an on call basis.
Gwenevere Abriel: Katrina great shares will attend today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hey, Katrina.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah.
I doing
Katrinas Ipad: How am I doing
Katrinas Ipad: I'm good.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I have
Gwenevere Abriel: I have this picture up just because I wasn't sure how long you're going to be and I put together a salad.
Katrinas Ipad: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it okay if I nibble, a little bit.
Katrinas Ipad: No, that's fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I'm kind of bring me up to speed. What's, what's up with you.
Katrinas Ipad: Um,
Katrinas Ipad: What's up with me. I'm freaking awesome. That's what
Obviously,
Katrinas Ipad: No, I'm
Katrinas Ipad: Just
Katrinas Ipad: Trying to not lose my little sticker that has the numbers written on it because I always lose it.
Katrinas Ipad: Um, what I have been up to. You see me okay
Oh, yeah.
Katrinas Ipad: I'm in a different room today so
Katrinas Ipad: It's the music room.
Katrinas Ipad: Um,
Katrinas Ipad: So I have been
Katrinas Ipad: Like
Katrinas Ipad: In a different kind of vibe, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: What kind of i was i mean
Katrinas Ipad: Like an adult life.
Katrinas Ipad: No. Yeah.
Katrinas Ipad: Angling my shit.
Katrinas Ipad: Oh day and it's not like
Katrinas Ipad: No, I just, I felt really good lately. Um, I haven't had like
Katrinas Ipad: It, we're, we're, like, if I get drained from having to deal with anything like stressful.
Katrinas Ipad: From
Katrinas Ipad: Hey,
Katrinas Ipad: Oh, I went to charge. I told you about that last week. No, not last week, the week before
Gwenevere Abriel: Me about it.
Katrinas Ipad: It was great. I had a moment.
Katrinas Ipad: I was used to, you know, this perception of like a Catholic Church. That's what I went to growing up. And so I pictured you know the the way Catholic churches, you know, where you don't understand how things are saying that the incense and that
Katrinas Ipad: You know where I always fell asleep. I don't go ahead. I hope that I'm not an adult that falls asleep in church and
So when
Gwenevere Abriel: You go to a question or Methodist or something. Would you go to recently.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah, it is Christian, but it's, I think, a non denominational
Katrinas Ipad: And I mean they did a little bit of singing I cried during the singing
Katrinas Ipad: I don't know why I just felt so
Katrinas Ipad: It was really a magical moment, um,
Katrinas Ipad: Then I did fall asleep for a little bit, but it was, I think, because during they got from like emotional
Katrinas Ipad: Place. Right. It was just emotionally
Katrinas Ipad: It was a lot, but it was a good one. But I ended up waking up very shortly after I hadn't slept very well that night though. So I think that was it because I wasn't like bored.
Katrinas Ipad: And it was just, I was amazed. Just how different it was, I mean,
Katrinas Ipad: It was awesome. It was really awesome and I wanted to go last week and I thought it was on Thursday, but it's Wednesday and Thursday. I was like, was church yesterday athletes and she's like, Yeah, and I was like I missed it. I wanted to go and she was like eating go
Katrinas Ipad: Because they ended up having a funeral on the neighbor's son committed suicide. So they were dealing with that and it was real rough I'm
Katrinas Ipad: On everybody here. I didn't really know so
Katrinas Ipad: I just try to be supportive for everybody. Yeah, I'm Trinity Matthew this year.
Katrinas Ipad: But yeah, I'm going this week now.
Katrinas Ipad: It's just me and pat that goes, which is Lisa step dad. And it's actually made like a bond for us.
Katrinas Ipad: And
Katrinas Ipad: We're crazy because I'm like I'm alone. Nobody understands me. Nobody knows what I'm going through like spiritually wise but he he gets it. He's all trying to like convince me of things. I already have tried convincing everybody else.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah. And so that was cool. It's nice to have a bond with him, but it also is something because he goes all the time. He doesn't try to shove it down anybody's throat or make anybody go
Katrinas Ipad: And
Katrinas Ipad: He was just really happy that I went and I wanted to go
Katrinas Ipad: I forced myself because I was dreading it towards the like.
Katrinas Ipad: I say, like, an hour before I was like, maybe I don't want to go. I don't wanna fall asleep in church. I don't want to be in you know my brain is giving me myself excuses. And I was like, No, I want to go, I want to go and I got there and
Katrinas Ipad: I'm glad I went, because it wasn't nothing like
Katrinas Ipad: A CATHOLIC CHURCH.
Katrinas Ipad: It was just, it was really good in
Katrinas Ipad: A lot of things that I had
Katrinas Ipad: confusion about or questions that kind of just went away and just feel a lot more settled.
Gwenevere Abriel: Church that I'm trying to think of the name of out here. It's nondenominational
Gwenevere Abriel: And I wonder if would be a good fit for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not hung up on it. Don't I won't be offended if you're like yeah, that's not for me. But I want to get the name of it out here and they may have that same thing. I don't know where the words escaping me
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll probably show up in my head as soon as I'm out of here. And then I'll have to send it to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it. Let me try, let me try.
Gwenevere Abriel: In Western Florida, maybe it's in Western and it'll pop up.
Me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it sounds a lot like what you just described.
No, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: I didn't mean to cut you off.
Katrinas Ipad: Oh, no, no, it was probably good because I probably would have jumped or kept going.
Katrinas Ipad: Which I've been working on.
Katrinas Ipad: Simple and trying not to jump off subject which I do a lot
Gwenevere Abriel: You do, but it's not it's not bad. It's just whether it's productive for you. And so what's the what's helping you catch when you're doing that.
Katrinas Ipad: It was when I was talking to the kids. I'd lose them after a while or get off subject and I would go back to my room and be like, I didn't even say what I'm saying, like, I didn't finish.
Gwenevere Abriel: But how do you catch it in the moment, so you know when you're drafting. How do you know when you're drifting
Katrinas Ipad: When they start to like yawn or wanted to pick up their phone and like the last you I didn't hear much about it again.
Katrinas Ipad: Or they start to fiddle with their fingers or even just anybody in the house, really, when they start to go. Mm hmm. Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: All the AHA
Katrinas Ipad: And I'm like, oh, I lost you. I yeah nice
Gwenevere Abriel: So the what's interesting about what you're doing is that the sign is from the outside, you're catching
Gwenevere Abriel: You know you're paying attention to this concept of reciprocity, you know, how is my audience responding to what I'm saying. Because it's not just me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sort of saying things I want to know whether it's being heard understood retained this is supposed to be a communication. So you're checking in and you can hear the author has whether they're yawning and their eye contact might drift.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wonder, do you ever catch yourself, why am I talking like, what's my subject like you ever catch yourself self in that. Why did I what started this conversation.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah, that I learned so much new stuff and then somebody will say something that links to it. I'm like, Oh, you got to know about this, you know, crazy cool stuff and
Katrinas Ipad: Half the time people are not interested in it as much as I am.
Katrinas Ipad: And
Katrinas Ipad: They just don't get excited, like I do, and then that's what I'm like oh
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah, I'm doing it you because I'm like why
Katrinas Ipad: Aren't you excited, why don't you know more. Some people just aren't interested in quantum physics and stuff.
Katrinas Ipad: So when I noticed that the most
Katrinas Ipad: But that's just recently that was I say probably only once knows like yesterday.
Gwenevere Abriel: And did you were you and grew up when I was showing you the
Gwenevere Abriel: The blocks to listening.
To
Gwenevere Abriel: This
Hold on.
Katrinas Ipad: Is the one I took the picture of the yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so the one where, let's see, identifying
Gwenevere Abriel: And this block you take every know everything in everything. A person tells you your first back to your experience tell about oh, if they tell you about a toothache.
Gwenevere Abriel: That reminds me about a time you had oral surgery. So this, this can happen. So you're talking about quantum physics we can end up happening is you end up telling your story you're excited you identify what what they're saying.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you start sharing your stories.
Gwenevere Abriel: But this can get in the way of the person who is telling the story.
Gwenevere Abriel: feeling like you've heard them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sometimes it's exciting and it keeps the conversation going. These are all useful but not to be pitched just because they're on this page. It's just if it's always happening, then guess what happens, we never get
Gwenevere Abriel: To stay on the topic because if the topic is so and so tells you a story because they want you to understand something, and you're talking about your own story. They may not feel like you understand them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Even though you're telling a similar story, and now it's off topic. And you may not even remember who started this
Gwenevere Abriel: And now they're bored with me. You know, it can really start to derail i'm not saying get rid of them. It's fun, it's like oh my gosh I had. Me too. Me too, me too. It's just a can drift.
Katrinas Ipad: Is just to be aware, and if there's thing.
Katrinas Ipad: You know, that was one thing I wasn't doing I wasn't paying attention to wait. They were responding
Katrinas Ipad: And I was making it yeah we make it about me.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Katrinas Ipad: Realize, I was doing that.
Katrinas Ipad: That pisses me off when people do that. So it was a reflection of myself. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: The more we know, the more we we can certainly intervene and make some changes around it. Okay. Well, that's exciting. You're getting all kinds of new things coming your way. The, the word I was looking for, um, I think, was Calvary.
Yeah.
Katrinas Ipad: That's the one Calvary.
Katrinas Ipad: This one I'm going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, it seems like that's kind of had a bit of an open platform for people to sort of find their own sort of language and sort of way of connecting spiritually. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, so you sent me. Let's take some time today and really formalized you could send a text with goals and they let's take some time and actually put them in your treatment plan. I think, I think they're sitting in my clipboard, we
Katrinas Ipad: Have I sent you the them written out on paper. My head jot them down. But I have bad handwriting. So I thought I'd better
Katrinas Ipad: You know, send it to
Gwenevere Abriel: Take the first one, here's number two. Number
Three.
Gwenevere Abriel: Number one.
Gwenevere Abriel: So stay if you can, in your own words, because I like to have the goal stated the way my clients, Sam. So they're not about me. They're about you. So if you can sort of make an I want to quit smoking or just make an if statement around the goal of quit smoking, and I'll put it in quotes.
Katrinas Ipad: I have quit smoking.
Gwenevere Abriel: It. What's the goal was smoking.
Katrinas Ipad: Too.
Katrinas Ipad: Well, like then or now now now is continue to not smoke.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you still challenged with cravings.
Katrinas Ipad: Little. Well, no, not when like there's not a smoker around me, but I'm in. I'm in a relationship with the smoker. So yeah, I still have them and
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to remain a non smoker.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that the goal.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, do you want to say it in your own terms. I know and make everything sound so sterile and cold.
Katrinas Ipad: Just simple
Gwenevere Abriel: Like it. Okay, we'll leave it then. Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Now we have to recognize that we have to put in some objectives in order to get there. So when you you're you're triggered when you're around it. Is it seeing her smelling
Gwenevere Abriel: Right or or sort of like, oh, I want to join her. Do you even know what the trigger is
Katrinas Ipad: It's like
Katrinas Ipad: It's not the smell because I really don't like the smell. That's one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Third of what is
Katrinas Ipad: I'm
Katrinas Ipad: Probably habit of
Katrinas Ipad: Reaching for it, like
Katrinas Ipad: I forget. It's like a muscle memory thing and just in the sense, I'll go to reach for and chill out of habit handed to me. And I'm like, Oh shit, you know. And at that point, it's already in my hand. Oh my god, you know, one drag them.
Katrinas Ipad: So I guess for getting
Katrinas Ipad: On let me find a way to put this in words. It's not like too much.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, that's okay. We're at the objective. So what will come up with a brainstorm together.
Gwenevere Abriel: Fine, we'll reach for blankety, blank instead of joining
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, sweetheart, and smoking. So it's an action. We don't want to what we're not going to do we want to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: As soon as you see when, when do you know the motion. She's reaching in her purse has received her pocket. She's reaching to the side is reaching the lighter you know it very fast. When's the first time you can picture. She's about to smoke.
Katrinas Ipad: It's like a annoyed. Exhale, in a sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: She has an exhale
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's it. Oh, that's so cool that you know that that's long before she's even reached for it. So it's client will reach for and we'll get to that in a minute. When client here.
Gwenevere Abriel: At least via exhale has an annoyed. Exhale. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like that. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a tough.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah. Yeah, but it's like something is annoyed her where she's like, I need a cigarette and that's for my which always shut up saying I needed.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so instead of joining in her so watch to show mirroring validation and emotional support instead of joining her in the smoking.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you look at maybe we'll do some work right around that particular. I don't know how much time will have, but maybe we'll have to do it next time anyway. So as soon as you hear it. I want you to think about
Gwenevere Abriel: What you can do, so first thing that comes to mind. Watch. I'm going to do it right now, open your mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're going to open your mind by real quick let's do some tactile put your hand, put your left. Wait a minute. Which hand do I want
Gwenevere Abriel: Put your left hand over on your
Gwenevere Abriel: On your sweatshirt and describe the texture that you feel on that. Yeah, no, a little further over with a stripe is yeah feel feel that describe what you feel.
Katrinas Ipad: silky smooth.
Katrinas Ipad: Span Dixie
Gwenevere Abriel: Listen, open your mind first thing that comes to mind. If I'm Alicia.
Gwenevere Abriel: What emotion, do you feel when I just have
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what happens after the Huff. If something isn't done what happens after Elise, she is tough.
Katrinas Ipad: isn't done by her me
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know. Mm hmm.
Katrinas Ipad: Well, I know what she's gonna she's gonna grab a cigarette. I'm sitting there debating whether I should stay or go
Katrinas Ipad: Because I know she's about to say, great, and I know I'm going to want some
Gwenevere Abriel: So you actually can register, you actually can think that's great.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're thinking about the cigarette or you're not thinking about the meaning. My girlfriend is annoyed.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not that you're not about her annoyance.
Katrinas Ipad: It's not always annoyed. It's just like
Katrinas Ipad: It could just be
Katrinas Ipad: You know she is like, yes, who's doing on an alcohol serving test for her work and
Katrinas Ipad: She had finished like a course or Yeah, little assignment part of the course in afterwards shoot is like
Katrinas Ipad: In like did that and I knew it was time for secret.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's
Gwenevere Abriel: What I just heard was, it's a closure.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the period of an event. It's right. It's the punctuation.
Gwenevere Abriel: Marks the closure of something
Gwenevere Abriel: On one hand, it's an exhale
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a solution. Maybe if she's annoyed. It's also the marketing of the end of effort from doing some survey.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me ask you something.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you see her doing that.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you want to ask her.
Katrinas Ipad: Depending on what I'm getting
Katrinas Ipad: On her five wise it's are you okay or do you need help, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's play with that a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: How many times have you actually follow through it that instead of smoking with her.
Katrinas Ipad: Since the beginning of the year. And that's what I've done.
Katrinas Ipad: Well, the first day I cheated and wasn't even intentional. I just
Katrinas Ipad: She had a tree. I didn't even snap. She didn't even know I'd stopped.
Katrinas Ipad: And I grabbed it and do the Dragon Ball Z cash if you know, but, um, after that day.
Katrinas Ipad: I because after I took that wonder, and I was like, I messed up today so I smoked that day. But the next day. Since then, I've just asked, like if she's irritated or, you know, like if
Gwenevere Abriel: I got it. Is it does it. Okay.
Katrinas Ipad: meditated Oscar, are you okay
Gwenevere Abriel: What does she
Do then
Gwenevere Abriel: What does she do, then
Katrinas Ipad: She'll tell me what's wrong, or she'll say nothing. I'm fine.
Katrinas Ipad: She'll. She'll always like the secret.
Katrinas Ipad: Michelle either tell me what's wrong, or she'll say nothing.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm fine, or she'll tell you
Gwenevere Abriel: And when she says, I'm fine. To you believer
Katrinas Ipad: Oh, yeah.
Katrinas Ipad: One thing about her. She's very honest.
Gwenevere Abriel: Way, what do you do once she tells you, I'm fine. What do you do
Katrinas Ipad: Go back to what I was doing.
Katrinas Ipad: Try to occupy my mind from
Katrinas Ipad: Not wanting the cigarette.
Katrinas Ipad: It's interesting.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I ended up asking you what right you could ask her a question but it happens to coincidentally already be something that you are doing
Gwenevere Abriel: You're already doing this.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's nothing new. Is that right, you're already when you hear her huff or exhale in an annoying way.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're already checking in with her, Are you okay, and do you need help, you're already doing.
Gwenevere Abriel: What about the punctuation one when she has put effort into cooking exercising driving whatever and dank. There it is. What do you do then about it when it's the end of she was doing a task.
Katrinas Ipad: Is there anything I can help you with, or let me finish that or do this so you can take a minute to relax.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there anything I can help with. So again, it's a question. Basically, and you offer some support.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah, that's only if I don't know, something that could be done that they need help with because they always say no.
Katrinas Ipad: So I have to just jump in. So if I know she's up with something. I'll just jump in and then she tries to come back and like I got
Katrinas Ipad: Your life.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you accept the nun and now
Katrinas Ipad: You know, I'd stopped doing that because that's all I would get from them. So I don't even ask. I just jump in.
Gwenevere Abriel: If she says no. Now, after you've jumped in. Do you stop being helpful. She doesn't want to help.
Katrinas Ipad: New they don't ever they haven't told me. No, no, no. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I just had to know how to order, fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're meeting.
Gwenevere Abriel: Elisa on an emotional level right you're able to sort of still be there with her without joining her and the activity of smoking.
Gwenevere Abriel: any pushback from her. Does it seem like this systems working
Katrinas Ipad: It's working. I think it's, it's also making her see that half the time he really doesn't want one. She'll take a few drugs and she's like, I really don't want this. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's where our objective comes in client will so it isn't really reaching for something. Is it it's you have access to your voice anytime, which is even better than reaching for something
Gwenevere Abriel: Because we can talk anytime. So that's great. So your task is really to do in order to, I want to remain a non smoker.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's basically when you observe something
Gwenevere Abriel: Right on an emotional level when you observe someone
Gwenevere Abriel: Is going through something either outside of you, or maybe in yourself that you ask, how can I help now. That happens to work intrinsically to, you could say.
Gwenevere Abriel: How can I help myself right now. What's my underlying need. Why am I wanting to be more than what I naturally am amplify distract escape.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can you can ask that same question of yourself so that one works on both sides. That's nice. So I thought that in here. So there's no actual physical reaching it's more like
Gwenevere Abriel: A psychological reaching it's reaching out for support to support reaching inward to check in. So it's really not a physical REACH is sort of that psychological one so client will ask
Gwenevere Abriel: Itself, or other, are you okay
Do you need help.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is your third one. Is there anything I can help with
Gwenevere Abriel: The actual ad jump, are you. Do you need help.
Gwenevere Abriel: I will jump in and help. So those are your three tasks that this is what we'll be looking at. I want you to tell me
Gwenevere Abriel: Out of the instances that happened throughout the day the times that. She smokes or whatever that you're triggered.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's the baseline that you're at. Now, when you're remembering to do it. Are you doing it 10 out of 10 times 20 out of 20 a week. Let's look at it on a weekly basis. How many times is it happening.
In order to make it
Are you okay
Katrinas Ipad: Where is it, where the cravings happening or the me actually following through with those things.
Katrinas Ipad: I can answer both of them.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm looking for a number, it's going to be baseline currently today about how many times a week. Are you effectively using this skill of asking an offering help
Katrinas Ipad: Oh 10 on 10
Katrinas Ipad: Okay.
So client.
Will continue
Gwenevere Abriel: Doing this
Gwenevere Abriel: Technique 10 out of 10 times
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh wait.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now watch
Gwenevere Abriel: When I asked you about this goal next month.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I say do
Gwenevere Abriel: The time so Alicia smoking.
Gwenevere Abriel: How often do you ask outward anything going on for you and you might start to change the way you talk because it may impact her because it'll be repetitive.
Gwenevere Abriel: Anything go on for you. You feel on the right, you know, you might change it up a little bit here and there.
Gwenevere Abriel: I might say, Well, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: How often, when you're triggered, are you continuing to ask these questions inward and outward. And you might say,
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm doing it about five times a week and I might say it's not because you're triggered less
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not noticing her smoking. So there'll be more inquiry about it, it'll be it'll be a little different, doesn't mean
Gwenevere Abriel: It has to stay at 10 I've got to always ask these questions, a minimum of times, not about 10 staying at 10 because something else might change. You might not be as triggered.
Gwenevere Abriel: What might become automatic is all of a sudden the meta communication is well someone smoking, they probably are trying to relieve
Gwenevere Abriel: A psychological distress by relieving their nicotine craving. Right. You remember reading seeing another thing so
Gwenevere Abriel: It might be that your interpretation of that that stimulus might change over time. And that's fine. Don't force yourself with this 10 out of 10 but I will be asking in a month how it's doing
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there any
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Katrinas Ipad: Um,
Katrinas Ipad: No, I think.
Katrinas Ipad: I mean other than it's made me. Notice
Katrinas Ipad: That I check in with myself like okay she's going to light one
Katrinas Ipad: Why do I. Why do I want one, you know, time. This is like a okay she's obviously
Katrinas Ipad: Putting off like a agitated or stressed out vibe. So now I'm like super sensitive to her vibes. Yeah.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah, I'm
Katrinas Ipad: really sensitive to like energy and
Gwenevere Abriel: So Katrina. Alternatively, and later on we can play with this one, it may not always be the rescuer
Gwenevere Abriel: Someday, it might be a distraction.
Katrinas Ipad: There's times I just like, I can't go outside.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, perfect. Okay, so you've got some nice flexibility and it. Let's go to the next goal wake up being thankful and smile for no reason.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, how often so let's make sure it looks at a few of these. If you're already doing it and really doesn't need my behavior, realizing it. And, you know, measurable timeframes and right, all that sort of thing that I do.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you're already doing it, then we'll just assume that you've got a handle on it. Wake up being thankful and smile for no reason. That's April. What are you currently doing.
Katrinas Ipad: I'm
Katrinas Ipad: Not necessarily smiling. Like when I first wake up, but I had noticed I smile more during the day now. But what I'm currently doing is when I wake up I
Katrinas Ipad: I, I tell God. Thank you.
Katrinas Ipad: And when I can remember because it's still not have it yet. Um, it's all the things that I'm thankful for, and
Katrinas Ipad: Try to have that relationship with Him without needing something
Katrinas Ipad: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: On a daily basis when you're not busy saying solve my problems for me, help me. You want to have a daily gratitude sort of ritual and routine, just as soon as you become conscious
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm grateful. Right. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And why is it that you want to
Gwenevere Abriel: What is it, the, the, the, if you have this goal accomplished what will it bring you
Katrinas Ipad: Well, it'll keep my
Katrinas Ipad: It will keep my relationship with my higher power, you know, be something an actual relationship. In my opinion, it won't just be me talking when I need something because
Katrinas Ipad: I don't like when people do that to me and I don't want to be
Katrinas Ipad: This
Katrinas Ipad: Right, I don't wanna
Katrinas Ipad: I don't want to be like that in life in general, I don't want to just being what I need something okay and so
Katrinas Ipad: And I am thankful for that. I woke up my eyes are open that people I love around me that I'm breathing that the world is still here that there's grass that there's flowers.
Katrinas Ipad: I stopped and smell the flowers, the other day, and there was little ladies sitting in a restaurant and they saw me through the window and they got the biggest smile and I was like that right there, that's cool, because I stopped to appreciate something that I forgot to do
Katrinas Ipad: And I did it in it. Somebody else saw it and it made them happy to
Katrinas Ipad: And it just, it was like a kind of a pay forward thing. It didn't even mean to, but it
Katrinas Ipad: Is like a domino effect in a sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we've got on wake up being thankful and smile for no reason.
Gwenevere Abriel: The objective, we've got here is we've got client will increase.
Gwenevere Abriel: From so in order to measure something we're going to use this one as something we measure where you're going to be assessing the progress. I don't know whether what you're thinking about in the morning. So what do you, how frequently every
Gwenevere Abriel: Morning. Let's take a week seven days. How many mornings, do you wake up right now where you run through a list of gratitude.
Katrinas Ipad: So like three days, three or four days.
Katrinas Ipad: It's not where I want to be, but it's
What made you want to be.
Katrinas Ipad: Every day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay to seven days a week.
Got it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Next one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Find
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, this is a big one. Now this one we can really get into that one's kind of on your own right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, find my calling.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or purpose by following my passion and heart that's big. So when you stop focusing all your attention on what not to do. I DON'T WANT TO USE PILLS. I DON'T WANT TO DON'T WANT TO DON'T WANT TO
Gwenevere Abriel: The invitation in a big way is focus on the direction you want to go put energy towards the things that you want to draw in healthy, happy people and really getting in touch and honoring your own a unique strengths and talents, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you know what it is. And you're just denying it, or you really do need more brainstorming and we need to do like a career inventory kind of thing what what he would tell me what was going on with that.
Katrinas Ipad: So I did that because I couldn't think of what it would be. And so I just started doing because I kept hearing it in in everything, you know, some of my spiritual videos.
Katrinas Ipad: My horoscope just kept saying to follow my passion. My even, even in the Bible. It was like okay I get it, I get it, follow my passion and it would lead me to my
Katrinas Ipad: Purpose in
Katrinas Ipad: I know what I want to do.
Katrinas Ipad: And I've been I
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't. Yeah.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah, and I actually already have a plan on
Katrinas Ipad: See with this shoe thing. It's not just issue. There's something different about issue.
Katrinas Ipad: And I'm doing the patent provisional right now to be able to tell people what it is because, you know, people
Katrinas Ipad: Just hear it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You completely get it.
Katrinas Ipad: But there's a special thing about the shoe where you can alter it right
Katrinas Ipad: Daily and stuff, you know, and
Katrinas Ipad: I have my sights set on Nike being the person. I mean, I already have their contact information and they're all their information. I just need to get this provisional done and I pitched it to them. It was cool is that the idea
Katrinas Ipad: And the name her just like a it's, you know, because how Nike has just do it.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah, well, this would be like a DUI thing or DIY is just, just do it yourself kind of
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah, and the shoe that is used specifically the most with people that do this.
Katrinas Ipad: Well,
Katrinas Ipad: They, they alter their shoe is Nike Air Force One. So, it just happens to work.
Katrinas Ipad: And they've invested the fashion industry they've invested over $300 billion into social media advertisement.
Katrinas Ipad: And so they know what people are doing on like Instagram and stuff, what they're doing to these shoes. So they're going to know that there that their specific shoe is being altered in that way.
Katrinas Ipad: And it's such as like
Katrinas Ipad: Easy idea, but it's it's really not because I'm like, I didn't, nobody think of this yet, because
Gwenevere Abriel: This is because
Gwenevere Abriel: This specific timing universe. The need don't fight it.
Katrinas Ipad: Don't know. And that's the crazy thing is is everywhere, everywhere. I'm getting that
Katrinas Ipad: Don't doubt yourself, you know, continue on. Don't, don't feel like because I've always felt like, well, not always, but last couple weeks I've been like it's
Katrinas Ipad: I'm going to run out of time people it's not going to be in when I finally get it or people, somebody else is going to come up with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know
Katrinas Ipad: But it takes two different things to make it work. And one of them is from a toy in the 90s.
Katrinas Ipad: That so
Gwenevere Abriel: Even I don't want to get too much into it. Let's go back for just a second. I really want to go the direction you're going. But in order to get an objective written, we have to stay quite precise here. So let's stay right here. I want you tell me what's going to get in the way of you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Making sure you do not get in your own way by
Gwenevere Abriel: It already being done.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or
Katrinas Ipad: Thinking it. Yeah.
Katrinas Ipad: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: We're thinking. So that's one of your obstacles.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me tell you something. Plenty of shoes blouses jeans dresses hats computers cars cups plays. Everything's been done, it can be done better.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, hold on. Two years.
Gwenevere Abriel: Even if someone beat you to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that is going to make all the difference.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're overthinking it so I want to hear about what that thought is what's, what's the overthink thought
Katrinas Ipad: You're wasting too much time, you don't have enough time, you should have did this one you had the idea of course I was 13 but
Katrinas Ipad: I've had all that time and then then my that's like my inner voice that's
Katrinas Ipad: Then I'll have like my brain or my own conscious thought process will kick in and say no if it was a thing. It would already be done.
Katrinas Ipad: You don't think like everybody else.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh wait, let me see if I got this one. Well, if I thought of it. How good can it be
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah, it's like the the old native you know put myself down is trying to be there, but then this positive like cheerleader.
Katrinas Ipad: Inner Voice kicks in. It's like, no, you got this. What are you doing,
Katrinas Ipad: Okay, fight between
Gwenevere Abriel: I can see it for someone to go the negative. I've got some negative one. So I want to do a decrease
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're going to decrease, you're wasting your time, you should have done it at 13 when you first thought of it. And if you thought it because you're different.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know how good. Could it be nobody's going to want it. So those are the negative ones we're going to decrease it how frequently are you are those sneaking in
Katrinas Ipad: Like maybe once a day because I'm working on it every day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so what do you counter it with that gets you past those negative moments.
Katrinas Ipad: I'll put on one of my inspirational videos. The Motivator ones that
Katrinas Ipad: Um, it's called gold cast. I don't know if you've heard it.
Katrinas Ipad: So in YouTube. And then there's another one on I think gold hub or motivation hub that when I really like because they
Katrinas Ipad: It's not so much yelling at you and telling you do it, or you're
Katrinas Ipad: Not talking to you. It's motivating you in a positive uplifting way not giving you shit.
Katrinas Ipad: And so I'll go into that if
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. I want to hear the self talk, you're going to decrease the frequency of
Gwenevere Abriel: You said it only happens once a day.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah, like like once or twice a day if that um
Katrinas Ipad: So what I'll say to myself in my mind is something I heard often one of those videos is
Katrinas Ipad: It's the right time, it's the right settings. The stages that the lights are on it's your time.
Okay.
Katrinas Ipad: And you're determined
Katrinas Ipad: To live it. Yeah, it's your time and your, your time is now and you're determined to live this time.
Gwenevere Abriel: May want to say it again mind might not catch it quite as as beautifully, it's the right time. The stage is set a lights are on I'm determined to live this time.
Katrinas Ipad: I'm determined. So this is my moment and then determine to live it.
Katrinas Ipad: Got it, or the
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, it makes me think of how you're gonna laugh at me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good Slim Shady song Eminem song.
Katrinas Ipad: I know it's funny you're talking about. I liked it so it's motivational in the beginning.
Gwenevere Abriel: I didn't want to be insulting, but like it's kind of like, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what I mean like terrified, like, Dang, this is really happening among blah blah but I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna do it. I'm terrified.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah. And what I tell myself is this. Okay. It may not be for everybody. They may not like it, but that's okay because drew redirection
Katrinas Ipad: Or rejection is redirection
Katrinas Ipad: Not it's not. It doesn't mean not good enough.
Katrinas Ipad: It just means you weren't the right fit for
Katrinas Ipad: That company.
Gwenevere Abriel: I really like that redirection a rejection is redirection you should, that definitely is t shirt worthy right there. I really like them.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah.
Katrinas Ipad: It was same that same
Katrinas Ipad: I think that one's cold cast. I mean, they get some good stuff. I'm like, that's right, yeah. Yeah, let's do it. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so here's what we will, we got
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to know it when you're not achieving this because you'll be having those negative thoughts three
Gwenevere Abriel: And four times a day, you'll know when progress has happened because you'll be two days have passed them motivations continuing and now that creeped in
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, and then another three or four days past with none of the Nick. So, you're good. We're going to be able to measure, it's going to be all based on self report.
Katrinas Ipad: Okay guys, fascism.
Katrinas Ipad: Course, alright, is my be my my magical thinking or my my resume restricted regular active racism working but
Katrinas Ipad: When I'm not
Katrinas Ipad: I think it's just more spiritual, I think, but some people may not. I'm still not okay so
Katrinas Ipad: Basically when I'm not on track. I'm seeing numbers.
Katrinas Ipad: I kept seeing the numbers 666
Katrinas Ipad: Okay. And I was scared to look up what the hell that meant because to me, that meant only one thing, but when I finally looked it up because I was seeing it everywhere like everywhere.
Katrinas Ipad: It's not an easy number to find just anywhere looked it up and it was talking about that you're not on path you're having negative thoughts you're not aligned with your
Katrinas Ipad: Your think you're not aligned with the universe.
Katrinas Ipad: And
Katrinas Ipad: So once I became aware of that and it kept saying, you know, remind remember your, your
Katrinas Ipad: Divine oneness and well so I was like okay, cool. I got it and started seeing it live. And then eventually, when I started getting really into like my creative
Katrinas Ipad: You know, is altering my jeans and stuff, doing what I enjoyed. I don't care if I'm 30 and I'm wearing pants with patches and things on it. It makes me happy. So I started doing that, I stopped seeing that number so much. And then I started seeing
Katrinas Ipad: A double 11 or 111
Katrinas Ipad: And that one. I always see the double 11 on like videos like you know it's the special number like
Katrinas Ipad: The, you know, the
Katrinas Ipad: The holy number or something. So I was like, Okay, let's see, when I looked up that one in it it resonated the exact opposite of what
Katrinas Ipad: The other number was saying. You're saying that I was on my path and that
Katrinas Ipad: It was all lining. I was like oh my god so crazy. I even showed ELISA and it was. Yeah.
Deep breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: One more time, nice and slow, this time.
Gwenevere Abriel: really paying attention in relate to your own rhythm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Special
Gwenevere Abriel: Your rhythm is
Gwenevere Abriel: And how that can be offered to the world.
Gwenevere Abriel: invites you to not betray yourself to follow that rhythm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Time and time again when you go there to your truth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is lead you to a place that you have grown psychologically spiritually, intellectually into personally
Gwenevere Abriel: Each time you go there within and you touch the truth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your truth.
Gwenevere Abriel: You come out of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Expansive
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Pay attention to that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So my next clients knocking on the cyber door.
Gwenevere Abriel: At least I have a waiting room now. Now, you're the best. She sent me this little door unlocked that
Katrinas Ipad: I felt bad like just intruding
Gwenevere Abriel: I love that door.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm so glad there's a waiting room now so awesome.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you guys can hear you can't hear the chime
Gwenevere Abriel: You can never hear
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, you can
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's set up another time. Do you want to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like march 10 and doesn't do you have, like, but you can make it earlier. I'm setting it forward, because it seems like you kind of got a nice groove going here.
Katrinas Ipad: Yeah, like don't doing, you know, dealing with the Trinity thing really well not getting them over flustered or angry or
Katrinas Ipad: Going just yeah my
Thoughts
Gwenevere Abriel: On March 10
Katrinas Ipad: At what time
Gwenevere Abriel: It's very tempting for me to to want to schedule it for March 11 at 11 but I'm not going to. Because now I know. And now I just can't do a scan.
Gwenevere Abriel: And be contrived, but I didn't think of it. So it would be march 10 is the Tuesday at 10 a
Gwenevere Abriel: Cool, all right, my dear. I gotta run.
Katrinas Ipad: Awesome. Thank you.
Katrinas Ipad: Have a good one.
Saraniah Aston: Hello.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hi, hi, hi fi
Saraniah Aston: Oh, it's a good picture.
Gwenevere Abriel: I Photoshop, the heck out of it.
Saraniah Aston: We all do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm just like,
Gwenevere Abriel: To real
Gwenevere Abriel: TMI.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I apologize that
Gwenevere Abriel: I never scheduled lunch for myself. So if someone's running a little late. I run out and grab a cell and then I end up kind of having to force it in between sessions. So I was just finishing a bite.
Saraniah Aston: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sure, have been impressed with you.
Did you know that
Saraniah Aston: You think
Gwenevere Abriel: You're really stepping into these these these services, I, I just think you know that gift you gave when you spoke up in Group talking about you know someone that was really kind of scared to speak her truth around tapering
Gwenevere Abriel: Really, I think it meant a lot to her that she did that.
Saraniah Aston: I just I just totally understood her fear and it was so visible. I could see it and it's just like almost painful, so you know and and
Saraniah Aston: I've always
Saraniah Aston: Reach out to people and but
Saraniah Aston: I had stopped being a little brat I guess I myself.
Saraniah Aston: Then secure or in my own ways.
Saraniah Aston: So in that. Oh, look.
Saraniah Aston: Oh, let me see.
Let me see. Let me see.
Gwenevere Abriel: I couldn't make my screen bigger, it's too tiny. There we go. Oh, look at that, hey, those are the pieces out of the box.
Gwenevere Abriel: At least two of them. What, what's kind of the, the inspiration theme sort of running in the background for the for this one.
Saraniah Aston: I'm the end. Well, it is why I wanted just to show you that I could do it. So that's why I did it.
Gwenevere Abriel: For so you wanted to like literally say when look I did it.
Saraniah Aston: Right, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's really cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: How long were you able to sustain that focus creativity really carve out time for yourself. How much time did you give yourself.
Saraniah Aston: Not that long. It was like 20 minutes of crazy pasting
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, it was. I mean, I
Saraniah Aston: Got even like that. Good. You know what I like. But it will be. I'll just change it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel honored
Saraniah Aston: Right, it's
Gwenevere Abriel: Like, in other words, almost like
Gwenevere Abriel: You were almost was it trying to, was it to please
Saraniah Aston: Reserve.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think so. But, but how is that kind of unique
Saraniah Aston: For you to do that kind of thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so I like playing. I feel honored. Well, I will
Gwenevere Abriel: I will treat that with its due respect, I really will because I have watched you I watched you like. Remember that session. It was like expectation and then wait a minute.
Gwenevere Abriel: This maybe initially proceed just cold square linear women white bears turning out and pull out some creativity, who know and then it kept going and kept going. But when the session and you weren't able to keep it going, you know,
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, and
Gwenevere Abriel: On your own you were able to get that done.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the thought that got it done was, do you know what the thought was, I'm going to get this done.
Saraniah Aston: Or the meeting, so she can see that I
Saraniah Aston: Can do it and then I don't know it's just so moved. Proud of me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I am proud of you and 20 pretty cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: 20 minutes
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, that's fine. It was good.
Saraniah Aston: So now, now that I've started. That means, like, it's like safe to keep going. So I'm not like afraid of it, really.
Saraniah Aston: It's just starting it. That's the hard part. Man is that the truth. Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's funny. It's kind of like when we think, Well, I want to go to this polities yoga class right I know when I'm there, I'm having a good time. I like feeling my body in motion. Right. I like it when I'm there, but I don't like getting there.
Saraniah Aston: I think
Saraniah Aston: Planning for it or yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my goodness, that's, that's the difficult part
Is that getting it started.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, I'm a serious procrastinator.
Saraniah Aston: Very real.
Gwenevere Abriel: So can we just talk about that for two seconds. And this is a
Gwenevere Abriel: Very oversimplified theory on procrastination. But it's an interesting one, given what you just said that I wanted to get it done before the meeting.
Saraniah Aston: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: The watch if we both agree, we'll use the word constraint for this meeting. It was a set time. You and I are going to need today was it before the group.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or today.
Saraniah Aston: It was that I started doing this.
Gwenevere Abriel: That it got done
Saraniah Aston: It was before I went to bed.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's fantastic. So this is such a great example. It's really cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to call today's appointment of constraint.
Saraniah Aston: Now, if
Gwenevere Abriel: I had called last night and I said,
Gwenevere Abriel: Sorry, I'm terribly sorry I'm my
Gwenevere Abriel: Blah, blah, blah, blah. And I have some excuse that I need to reschedule.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's meet this weekend.
Gwenevere Abriel: The constraint would have moved that timeline that deadline would move forward.
Saraniah Aston: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you'd be left with just you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Should see it.
Saraniah Aston: And yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I have gotten score me and said, Yeah.
Saraniah Aston: I'm pretty sure I would have
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's so cool that you're getting this in real time. This is this phenomenon like everybody we all think, well, I'm the worst pronounced procrastinator. We all are. We're
Gwenevere Abriel: All terrible procrastinators but really
It's that
Gwenevere Abriel: Have constraints we don't have deadlines. So for example, if you're, you know, an entrepreneur.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm trying to put together a website will use an example. There's no deadline.
Saraniah Aston: It's taking your, your, your own. Yeah, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no deadline. I keep pushing it like this, push, push, but it's not it's not even pushing it. It's not there.
Saraniah Aston: And stressing yourself out completely. I do that I so do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, but look how the reality of the constraint. You know, I didn't say or your bar nota or collage or you're not going to get your medicine.
Saraniah Aston: You know, like you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know is actually no negative repercussions for it. But you said it was all in your head.
Saraniah Aston: completely, totally, absolutely.
Gwenevere Abriel: Isn't that so powerful.
Saraniah Aston: Mm hmm. It is
Gwenevere Abriel: Now it can work for us when we do our treatment planning and this is for a lot of people to. They're like,
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't want to hear about that silly goal one more month that whenever she brings up these darn goals every single month. I don't want to hear about it. I'm just going to do it so sorry to hear about it could work like that. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like as a negative reinforcement. Like, I don't want to hear her remind me of this thing. I have I made a primary care physician appointment or something. I don't want to hear about it.
Saraniah Aston: Again,
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm just going to go do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's nice. Once you know that about yourself. I invite you. Let's write as many goals as you want, where I can be that nudge, nudge, nudge, and she's
Saraniah Aston: Mm hmm. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, we can do all if therapeutically we can do all kinds of interventions, but on paper. Sometimes it's really neat to have very timeframe measurable objectives. So we can say okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Am I taking these newly learned skills, am I applying them to my life so that I can accomplish my goals. And that's really what this is all about.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's a neat thing you just shared we all do that by the way. And so there's this interesting video online. These call this master procrastinator. And he he makes a joke about people that are working on their PhD, you know, it's like
Gwenevere Abriel: There's just too much time just not getting anything written. So ironically, it actually works and people usually fight. They're like, I don't want a deadline. Don't tell me walk walk walk. So notice how that might show up. Remember we were talking earlier about the tapering
Gwenevere Abriel: So initially, I think it's like, well, how, for some people it's how dare you right it's indignation and anger and fear really is behind it, like, don't take my medicine. I don't want my I don't want those withdrawals. They were catastrophic
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, that's
Saraniah Aston: It's a scary, scary thought really scary.
Gwenevere Abriel: But if that one. The 10 out of 10 withdrawal is also irrational. Hold on, because no one's asking for that we're asking for
Gwenevere Abriel: A little bit of sweaty just, Oh, I feel like you know like going through the, the change of life, you know, a little bit of hot
Gwenevere Abriel: Hot sweats, maybe you notice, maybe a runny nose, we have all had a cold. We can all live through that.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's where being a constraint being consistent when we show up when we say, let's talk about your fear what what is, what are the actual symptoms how how intense, are they
Gwenevere Abriel: It can also be the same thing as the constraint about doing this collage. It's about let's set a deadline. Let's see how you do in there, not you're going to be good or bad at the end of it. But let's just see what happens if you like trying to meet it.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's so there's a lot going on. It's not just this sort of bombardment of rules and expectation
Gwenevere Abriel: It's very individualized every person has their own. So I would invite you, as I do, everyone to you're going to hear
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe more intense leaning in with some person and maybe even Oh no. Stay right where you are. That's because each person their approach to whatever's going on with their medication is individualized everyone is not treated the same. So right
Saraniah Aston: Mm hmm. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Anyway, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me look at that again. Let me see.
Gwenevere Abriel: What percentage in satisfaction. Do you give this one. What do you give it
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay cuz we you jammed it together and 50 in 20 minutes because you're like, I'm gonna get this thing done.
For I see her. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you, when you look at it, what emotion, does it evoke
Saraniah Aston: I'm
Saraniah Aston: A little a, little a little bit to complete completely different things. One is calmness and one is chaos.
Saraniah Aston: It's it's a
Saraniah Aston: It's a chaotic collage. But when I look at it, it's, it's called me to to make it
Saraniah Aston: When I do when I was doing it. I had to go into the mode of being feeling kind of
Saraniah Aston: Crazy chaos and doing it really fast and
Saraniah Aston: I'm
Saraniah Aston: Making sure that it wasn't all like shiny happy peace signs. But what I
Saraniah Aston: M, which is not shiny happy all the time.
Saraniah Aston: But sometimes dark and yeah you know
Gwenevere Abriel: I remember probably inaccurately but to some degree. I think you shared an appreciation of yourself that you can
Gwenevere Abriel: You have access to this skill of being able to witness something and capture taking something chaotic and maybe dark, maybe even ugly and seeing the beauty in it.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah yeah like
Saraniah Aston: I really wanted to do a photoshoot with a model.
Saraniah Aston: And I've had this vision for a really long, long time.
Saraniah Aston: Of the model like wearing a long white slowly dress or something like that really pretty and delicate and pretty and but she is sitting in the middle of like a ghetto with trash and graffiti and she's like this angel in the middle of dirt dirty chaos.
Saraniah Aston: Something I want to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Have you ever done any self portrait work where
Saraniah Aston: That's what I do. I do it every day. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you have that awareness, you have you're aware that
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe in a sense, you have the ability, is it to see your own beauty and light even
Gwenevere Abriel: On the outside, you might be perceived in another way.
Saraniah Aston: Mm hmm. Yeah.
Saraniah Aston: But also, I'm only seeing it as very recently because of fear. I mean, like most of my life. I haven't seen it, and I haven't had that much self worth, or self appreciation self love self respect any of that and
Saraniah Aston: And now it's like I said
Saraniah Aston: It's really intense.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the resources that become available to you. And I don't mean paper and pen and money, but maybe I do. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: The resources that become available to you because you're worthy.
Gwenevere Abriel: The intense right and you have access
Gwenevere Abriel: What became accessible to you because you're worthy what's available what richness and resources available to you now.
Saraniah Aston: I'm in gauging with other human beings.
Saraniah Aston: Other people
Saraniah Aston: Without being
Saraniah Aston: Fake and maybe
Saraniah Aston: I'm approachable.
Saraniah Aston: I've been very like unapproachable, and
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, for sure. And that's very, it's really changed a lot.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel like even
Gwenevere Abriel: I consider myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sensitive meaning. I think I pick up on subtle things I don't always get to announce them but
Gwenevere Abriel: To get is it convenient for other people. But in your work. It's it certainly has
Gwenevere Abriel: I might pick up on things quickly.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: I thought
Gwenevere Abriel: Can I share feedback with you.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I thought
Gwenevere Abriel: You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: I think Sarah Nia has made up her mind about what we're capable of. And I don't know if she's gonna she's gonna trust me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I remember thinking that
Gwenevere Abriel: But you know what
Gwenevere Abriel: I know my worth
Gwenevere Abriel: I happen to know my intention is really good.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's interesting, right. There's nothing I can do about your interpretation. I have no right to try and change your perception, but I can come back to me. I can know deeply I have done the work that makes it possible for you, hopefully to feel safe around me.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I knew that I can't control these people sometimes people do have ill intentions, they're selfish.
Gwenevere Abriel: They're insensitive.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of them are straight up sociopath.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I still have me
Gwenevere Abriel: So when you say, Oh, I just got in touch with my worthiness, and it was intense.
Gwenevere Abriel: The world opens up
Saraniah Aston: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: You got to feel for a moment, connecting with human beings and it's intense maybe also because it's risky.
Gwenevere Abriel: They can really let you down.
Saraniah Aston: It's very risky but it's easier to like get rid of people who are not okay who are not what I want, or who are negative or whatever they whoever they are.
Saraniah Aston: If I'm not comfortable with. I don't feel like I have to prove anything to them to make them change their mind or whatever.
Saraniah Aston: Or be different or better. Or I don't fight with them. I just move on without them.
There we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: So for today. I'm gonna I'm gonna see if you're open to this. There are a few activities, I would like to do with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But because safety and preparation are so important in how I protect. I'm wondering if we could do some activities, really, to start to build
Gwenevere Abriel: A lots of resources so that when we do these activities. If you decide to always inform you offer education around it and you have a choice to say no or yeah I'm interested
Gwenevere Abriel: But either way, the development of resources are useful in imagery. Regardless, so they serve a dual purpose. Can we do that a little today.
Saraniah Aston: Huh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It does tap into the right brain, the creative side so you might enjoy it. Let's see.
Gwenevere Abriel: First one love this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's do the we developed the
Gwenevere Abriel: We did the protective we did right we've been developing we started we did the nurturing and we did wise. Now I'd like to do a container.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is a bit like compartmentalization right that's a term we use sort of colloquially and its intention is to take what you perceive as unwanted distressing negative emotions images thoughts, beliefs,
Gwenevere Abriel: And put them in the container.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's the instruction. Once you just think of an emotional container that is big enough.
Gwenevere Abriel: Strong enough to hold all your stuff has a lid, some kind of locking system. If it's not a lock, then something in the container where that stuff will want to stay
Gwenevere Abriel: So just let your creativity mind go and it can be anything. There are no constraints, except those roles. I just threw out and even then we can break them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh,
Saraniah Aston: Now I'm just seeing a bunch of boxes.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's beautiful. That's beautiful. So in a sense, there might be multiple they might not all sit together maybe they'll be in different compartments or something, but a bunch of boxes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Saraniah Aston: No, I totally saw a bunch of different kinds of boxes trong with a lock.
Saraniah Aston: A panic room.
Saraniah Aston: Like that, with a lot, obviously, like with the steel doors.
Saraniah Aston: And then just a cardboard box.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's how we might use these I might say,
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is me telling you how I would use it always as transparent as I possibly can be. So let's say there were in at the end of a session. And I'm like, Oh my gosh, we only have three minutes left, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I need to take care of you. Make sure you're not leaving in sort of a high distress, and I might say, okay,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's get in touch with our breath. Let's do that. Diabetic breathing breathing at the bottom of the long let's breathe into this and what I'd like you to do is I want you to take whatever sort of that distressing imagery is
Gwenevere Abriel: And I want you. Sorry Nia to decide whether it goes into a cardboard box.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or the steel locked panic room.
Saraniah Aston: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Does that work for you.
Saraniah Aston: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you had choice. Did you like that choice.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful clearly right the construction and what they can hold securely. It depends on the intense right you can picture one thing
Gwenevere Abriel: You might want to put. Okay, got it. So this might work really well because even in the moment you might get a sense of choice agency and power. So that might be kind of cool to have that available in the moment. That's beautiful.
Gwenevere Abriel: And another one. Let's do another one. This one is a distancing, same kind of idea a distancing metaphor.
Gwenevere Abriel: You might be right in the middle of an activity with me and you might go like this to me. Right. This will be the sign or you can come up with another one that's like this is too much.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I may accidentally bump into something right where an old thing comes in. Nowhere out of the gotchas. And if I don't notice a dissociative sign if I don't notice something because telemedicine is flawed. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like you're not right here next to me so I can see everything. Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: I might say, you know what, let's take a moment and let's take whatever that was in your mind and let's put it on a spaceship.
Gwenevere Abriel: And let's shoot it off after space or right. That was one example of a metaphor or it's on a leaf and you're on the shore right anchoring there.
Gwenevere Abriel: In the qualities of protection and nurturing and wisdom.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that negativity. Right. It's so you can't you can't even see it anymore so small.
Gwenevere Abriel: Away.
Gwenevere Abriel: Examples of distancing metaphors, but I want this one to be home, see what comes up for you around a distancing metaphor. It's got to be something a bit like in motion because this is a process, but also that it can go further and further away and
Saraniah Aston: Like a high speed train stopping them my station.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then
Saraniah Aston: Moving on to others, leaving me alone.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then moving on to other stations.
Saraniah Aston: And every door closing. I'm not in that
Saraniah Aston: In that on the on that. Right. So, yeah.
Saraniah Aston: It moves on.
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful. I'm making a note of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: high speed train stopping at my station when moving on to another station.
Gwenevere Abriel: Close and I'm not on that ride.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Beautiful.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we have
Gwenevere Abriel: Aside from the anchor room which is potentially, you know, three, four session. Very rarely is done in one session. Aside from that, I've done a great deal of the of the preparation pieces.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wouldn't mind checking in, just to see your comfort level and developing the anchor room, are you, it's like a safe space. Basically, the, the notion of this anchor room is you know how you mentioned the panic room. You know how you went there with that kind of like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: This uses imagery it taps into sort of some transactional analysis stuff it it really gets to
Gwenevere Abriel: Getting an unmet need
Gwenevere Abriel: Making sure your needs are met in this space in this anchor room you get everything you need.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is a sanctuary for a lot of people when they are in distress.
Gwenevere Abriel: They're at work. There was someone that is activating the threat response like big time.
Gwenevere Abriel: They want to run off the job.
Gwenevere Abriel: They, hopefully, remember to breathe.
Gwenevere Abriel: They go to the anchor room.
Gwenevere Abriel: They acknowledge what they really need
Gwenevere Abriel: I need to value my own opinion this is to someone else's opinion, they're telling their story. Whether yakking at me. I need to. I need to take care of myself. And in this imagery. Right. And this is where we have all this imagery setup so that you can go there and get what you need.
Gwenevere Abriel: and problem solve.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe the skills need needed in that moment are
Gwenevere Abriel: Since this guy's problem. So my problem. I've been carrying too much about the outside world and opinion. That's the skill. Yeah, that's it, or the flip side, it's
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I'm not in my humility. I've been trying to be right. And instead, I need to choose curiosity over being right there's lots of things to do in there, but I wanted to be available to you. It's literally has been useful for people when they're trying to work out what to do next. And they
Gwenevere Abriel: Are quick in order to feel okay
Gwenevere Abriel: And safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is where they go in their imagery and it's just yours. It's exactly what you need. So it does take a few sessions to get there. But along the way, you can run across some pretty interesting information.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you game.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let's get started. Let's see how far we get today, so I will want to leave about five minutes right at the end, we'll do some dire dramatic thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: While you're already received instruction about what that is where you breathe to the bottom of along on the inhale yoga. Sometimes we'll teach that or through other counseling or therapy.
Saraniah Aston: Awesome. I just know breathing in through the nose and then slowly leasing out through the mouth.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know I typically teach box breathing on the very first appointment.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I remember listening to in group. And you said it's a little difficulty. Get that that breath down there at the bottom.
Saraniah Aston: Right to carry
Saraniah Aston: The full the full breath is something I need sometimes
Saraniah Aston: I don't
Saraniah Aston: I don't, I can't have it. Sometimes it's really weird. It's just a physical thing.
Saraniah Aston: Is a physical thing.
Saraniah Aston: And I'm really
Saraniah Aston: Being able to get the full breath. Hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm excited. So I next time. What I want to teach. If you're open to it. Of course, if something else comes up. We can shift gears. But I want to teach you what I call box breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's really dire from out of breathing. It just means that you're you're using sort of the mindfulness practices of feeling the air coming in going to the bottom of the long
Gwenevere Abriel: Feel got my chairs here. You feel the stomach pushing out on the in breath. You don't feel that when you're having a Shallow. SHALLOW breath because we forget and we
Gwenevere Abriel: We
Gwenevere Abriel: We keep our breath UP HERE TIGHT, which keeps reinforcing the body.
Gwenevere Abriel: To believe we are in a threat response all day long. Cortisol runs. We were always in a threat response, always, always, always, we never give your body a break. And so what this does is it's it's the real shoot now and going into it. I'm not gonna be able to get
Saraniah Aston: The same
Saraniah Aston: And this is a trick of the mind or something kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: Doesn't you know how you said earlier it's it's science or biology or something like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is actually biology.
Saraniah Aston: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't actually have to believe it.
There's no trick.
Gwenevere Abriel: I love those. I was so excited about it. I was like, yeah, baby. I like those. This my biology working for me. So we're going to go into that next time. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, teach box breathing this we're going to do next time. If you want to jump on the internet. I think people call it something else. It comes from my belief Dialectical Behavioral Therapy thing is called square breathing or you could look up diaphragm breathing.
But the particular way I treat
Gwenevere Abriel: Is for in breaths hold for four exhale for four seconds hold for for so it's a box.
Saraniah Aston: Okay, okay. See
Gwenevere Abriel: But I'll definitely that would be a task for the next time we need a minute. I'm going to teach that and do it with will take takes a while because it's actually difficult to do. It seems like, oh, I've been breathing all along wise, it's going to be hard. But yeah, it gets hard
Saraniah Aston: Okay, you know, when you're doing it when it's done.
Saraniah Aston: when when when you actually reached it like you know you feel it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to know when you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know when you're breathing in the bottom of your lungs, because it's it's a really, it's almost uncomfortable because
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not used to doing it like and you know how you can take this big TV breath up here in the chest. You can't take a big deep breath when it's down below. It just feels different. It's
Gwenevere Abriel: It's more air but it's down pushing down on the diaphragm and then pushing down on these lower viscera. These organs down below so it does
Saraniah Aston: feel different.
Way.
Saraniah Aston: Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Next time I'm, I'm excited.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go on this. This is more imagery, but I love when it's going to do for creating a resource for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And this is how it starts, a couple, couple little key points. Number one, no way to do it wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: The way for you to do it wrong. I can bundle it
Gwenevere Abriel: I will
Gwenevere Abriel: My point is so that you don't have to think. Am I doing this right. Well, she will. This is my thought, Am I Doing This Right.
Saraniah Aston: You're doing it right.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, you're wrong, because you know why whatever comes up for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: If this is what comes up for you. I want to know. I can't read your mind. So I'm oh I noticed that my tea started chattering. I want to know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I noticed my hands started sweating. Oh, I noticed my stomach tighten up. Oh, I just, I just had a thought forget this. I want to get out of here. I want to know.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just I just felt tier coming. I felt sad. Why so so angry, I feel a thought I care about the body. I care about the mind, the soul I care about the emotions. I'm interested in all of it. There's no way for you to do it wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: It will just be really hard for me if I don't if I don't hear about it because I only can rely on. You're telling me.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the only other thing is this. It may be tempting to think, Oh, this one a bear. She wants me to go to the memories. That's not actually what I'm doing.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not doing that you decide to go to memories. That's your business. But that's not what I'm up to. I'm telling you, I think it's three, three times, they go to memory. This where this is where
Gwenevere Abriel: How old were you, what was your nickname, if you had one if not what you want to be called. And the third one is this
Gwenevere Abriel: Question.
Gwenevere Abriel: What were you bloody blood
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. That's it. I'm not going to be saying we'll go through and tell me the memory when you were such and such as that's not what we're doing. If you think that's what it is. Right. You might think, Oh my gosh, I don't want to tell her, and I don't want to relive this
Gwenevere Abriel: You get to you self preservation. You get to modulate how much you share how much you bring into your awareness. Just know that those are the only three things that I haven't said with the third one is
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I want to do it in the moment, but it's the only it's a message that maybe someone said to you, that's all.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the rest of is not an invitation for this room to be a room when you were 14 it's not. It's your creative mind putting in that room what you needed
Gwenevere Abriel: So here we go.
So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Current life Sardinia, when you think about where you are most blocked the most stuck you think trying to solve this, whatever it is, for some time, but, doggone it, it just keeps showing up in your life and you want to make a change around it.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are you blocked around
Saraniah Aston: Definitely um
Saraniah Aston: I would
Saraniah Aston: I automatically think of something like Facebook and deleting a bunch of people
Saraniah Aston: And doing that over and over again and then coming back and me Julian and over and over again being offended or reading things the wrong way, not giving them a chance to explain, not caring just shoving them done gone over with by
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me, let me lean into that a little bit so I can understand more. When you see on Facebook, time and again that you are. Let me see if this is right. I might be wrong misunderstood.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that it
Saraniah Aston: Yep. Yeah, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: If somehow you can have a banner that just constantly running
Gwenevere Abriel: I constantly right under here.
Saraniah Aston: You're
Gwenevere Abriel: Here are my intentions. What was your banner say
Saraniah Aston: God, the same thing. It always says I'm
Saraniah Aston: I know that I seen
Saraniah Aston: This way cold or crazy or
Saraniah Aston: I'm up and down.
But
Saraniah Aston: That's just the way
Saraniah Aston: I am now I
Saraniah Aston: Don't have time. Yeah. Okay.
Go into that a little bit.
Saraniah Aston: I don't know. That's what I would write. Usually it's like I i are at least I used to not very long. Actually, we just write
Saraniah Aston: The anger afterward, or what happened. The whole world doesn't use and understand what's going on. Except me and everybody else to understand it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So hold on to that one right there. I understand. Just take. See, see what happens when you say try it out loud may seem goofy, but we'll just told you. We're going to do some goofy things in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can always make funny to people, you're welcome to. But, see if you can say hear your own voice out loud. I understand what's going on. For me, it's my truth. See what happens when you say that out loud.
Saraniah Aston: With
Saraniah Aston: Another doesn't work.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's right. That's beautiful. So we just found what it's not. Fantastic.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's try another one.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can tell what it wasn't sharply quick you knew so fast.
Gwenevere Abriel: How about just the piece of I know who I am.
Saraniah Aston: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: If you try and say that what happens
Saraniah Aston: I know who I am, yeah, no. Yeah, I think it feels at that now it's scary. Still, but it's powerful, because it's true. I'm beginning to who I am.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what you're fighting for on Facebook, right, you're fighting for it.
Saraniah Aston: You're like, yeah, I really, really was like attention and approval. Yeah. And now I'm fairly on Facebook like
Saraniah Aston: I don't, I don't feel like I need it every once in a while. I went back to my safe space. I get I had like 500 friends and said 49 now.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, for a moment, I want you to hold on to remember we're developing this anchor room. Let's see what happens when
Saraniah Aston: We do.
Gwenevere Abriel: You remember telling you, it just as beautiful beautifully can't do it wrong. My job is to keep us sort of corralled in here so we don't
Saraniah Aston: Know, that's good. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's try this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember I said we would depend a memory. So just for a second. See how old
Gwenevere Abriel: The I need approval and attention.
Hold is that
Saraniah Aston: Really oh
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, yeah, see if you can
Gwenevere Abriel: trackback. The earliest age that's most effective in this anchor. So if we can capture the earliest age that you became sort of aware
Gwenevere Abriel: I need approval, I need this approval.
Hold for you.
Saraniah Aston: Hopefully, around nine
There we go.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you have a nickname back then. And did you like the nickname.
Saraniah Aston: Um. Nope. Just well MIA mia
Gwenevere Abriel: Just for this exercise is man call the younger nine year old man.
Yeah.
Cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here we go. You ready
Gwenevere Abriel: So I want you to look around.
Gwenevere Abriel: Look around and realize this is your home now, doesn't mean it was back then, doesn't mean it's going to be the one in the future, but it's the one you have now.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I want you to imagine that you add a Rome.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's attached to this one in some way. It can be any size can be attached anywhere.
Gwenevere Abriel: And will have everything you want in it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Start to share with me what you notice is in that room.
Gwenevere Abriel: Try not to edit because I'm sure
Gwenevere Abriel: There's a camera in there.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: What kind of camera talking about video camera. What kind of camera.
Saraniah Aston: No, a nice professional digital camera for taking pictures.
Gwenevere Abriel: How big is this room.
Saraniah Aston: Not big
Saraniah Aston: It's white and there's a stool in the middle and on stools, the camera.
Gwenevere Abriel: School in middle with national camera on it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you say was, I didn't quite hear. If it was a color are the size I couldn't hear one more.
Saraniah Aston: White it's white and it's not very big. It's smaller than
Gwenevere Abriel: Small white and look just in your imagination sort of scan the walls.
Gwenevere Abriel: Ceiling and floors, take your time and tell me what you notice
Saraniah Aston: Well,
Saraniah Aston: I don't know, it's kind of like a way in my imagination. It's cloudy and
Saraniah Aston: I'm
Saraniah Aston: Like a
Saraniah Aston: Like a cloud kind of okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you in the room.
Saraniah Aston: Mm hmm. Yeah. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So when you look down at your feet.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are you standing on
Saraniah Aston: A cloud.
Saraniah Aston: Okay, standing on
Gwenevere Abriel: How does it feel tactile to stand on the cloud.
Saraniah Aston: It feels like every like footstep is out is like completely supported
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's the temperature of those feet as they make contact with the cloud.
Saraniah Aston: Cool, cool, cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the walls. See what you notice
Saraniah Aston: Already did it was
Saraniah Aston: There were stucco. They're really white stucco walls.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you want them to be white stucco walls.
Saraniah Aston: Are really know if that's something from my childhood that are remember
Saraniah Aston: It's Tracy my hand along the way, the way stucco was
Yeah.
Saraniah Aston: Or scraping my knuckles on it or something. So no, I don't like that.
Saraniah Aston: But I can't help it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know, I know. Right keeps pushing in there. So take a look at that camera that professional digital camera really look at it. Feel the support every step.
Gwenevere Abriel: And check and see for a moment where a light source might be coming from, if there is one.
Saraniah Aston: Will be the whole room was
Saraniah Aston: Pretty much. I got
Saraniah Aston: A white
Saraniah Aston: Box of light and
Saraniah Aston: fluffy clouds.
Saraniah Aston: With the annoying stuck.
Saraniah Aston: I don't know why.
Saraniah Aston: But yeah, the room itself is like a very bright, sunny.
Saraniah Aston: And no, I didn't notice ceiling or anything like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no window. Is that right,
Saraniah Aston: There's no one, no, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: And how bright is it, is it really bright, like what's the Brighton.
Saraniah Aston: Really great
Gwenevere Abriel: Really, really great.
Gwenevere Abriel: What about the ceiling. What's up with that let's it seemed like up their
Saraniah Aston: Endless beyond the clouds. I see clouds.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's beyond the clouds.
Saraniah Aston: I don't know. Probably the rest of
Saraniah Aston: Her. No, I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: But right so but you have a sense that there's no ceiling.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, just checking. And I'm for a moment. I want you to get a sense of the temperature of the room.
Saraniah Aston: I'm
Saraniah Aston: Cool.
Saraniah Aston: But like it could really easily get very hot and uncomfortable for some reason.
Huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's cool, but could get really hot.
Saraniah Aston: Mm hmm.
All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now I want to get into all of the senses. It's not just what we see. It's not just tactile I'd like you to also get a sense of
Gwenevere Abriel: For me, I'm going to close my eyes because it's easier for me to tune one sensory input and turn on another I'm closing my eyes and if you want to, for a lot of people. It's an uncomfortable thing to do. So you do it if you want to see what you hear.
Gwenevere Abriel: In that room.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is a quiet.
Saraniah Aston: Quiet.
Saraniah Aston: Maybe it windy, maybe like the sound of wind a little bit
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so where's the wind coming from
Saraniah Aston: All around everywhere.
I go
Gwenevere Abriel: These are harder to get to
Saraniah Aston: What it's like
Saraniah Aston: If it's hard to might be really, really, really hard to get to
Gwenevere Abriel: And what, what about um
Saraniah Aston: Scott
Gwenevere Abriel: Funny.
Gwenevere Abriel: About
Gwenevere Abriel: The successes like
Gwenevere Abriel: Now,
Gwenevere Abriel: Anything else
Saraniah Aston: Next,
Gwenevere Abriel: To look and see if there's a door.
Gwenevere Abriel: And if there isn't. Well then, how did you get there. Again, no way to do this wrong, just let me know how you got to the room.
Saraniah Aston: Well, I'm
Saraniah Aston: Attached
Saraniah Aston: My room so
Saraniah Aston: Sarah like yeah there's a door, and that is the cracks. You can see the light coming out and
Saraniah Aston: Maybe even like cloud fogginess
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is the door closed.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, that's
Gwenevere Abriel: What we're made of
Would what color.
Saraniah Aston: What
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me about the handles, and if there's a lot of merit is things like that.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, there's
Saraniah Aston: Old like an old, old handle all hard heavy weight hardware.
Saraniah Aston: And the big
Saraniah Aston: A big lock.
Gwenevere Abriel: It lock on your side or the other side.
Saraniah Aston: I'm on my side.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it locked now.
Saraniah Aston: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like you to pay attention for a moment, to the degree that you're comfortable really be present. Maybe intermittently closing eyes if you can even for a half a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: And go to that space. If you feel safe enough in there because there's still a lot to do. But it's like you just see
Gwenevere Abriel: Rather be aware right of how your body feels in there. It's our messenger, it gets information from the outside world instantaneous long before we can even come up for you know a word for what's going on our bodies going to register right away.
Gwenevere Abriel: Whether it's safe or not.
Gwenevere Abriel: So when you're in there. And I know this is imagination.
Gwenevere Abriel: But just picturing being in that room. What you can do is if you're not used to doing it, but I can invite you to do is to just do a scan, as if like a Superman thing is going through her, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: How to even all the way into the viscera into the organs, the bones ligaments and tendons and muscles and skin.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you pay attention to subtle shifts of relaxation attention or twisting and turning
Gwenevere Abriel: A release an activation
Gwenevere Abriel: You just pay attention.
Gwenevere Abriel: How the body feels in that room.
Gwenevere Abriel: See if there's still a charge in any part of you in there.
Saraniah Aston: Well, it's kind of like, first I had to check and see if I am
Saraniah Aston: I want to say like
Saraniah Aston: To entered it
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, or
Saraniah Aston: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So maybe we come back, where before we go in, we in this room euro are here. I see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what part of your body knows whether you're saying, which means your reality.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is validated. Right. You're saying
Saraniah Aston: My body temperature.
Gwenevere Abriel: Temperature. Cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so what's the temperature right now.
Saraniah Aston: Hot
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're gonna have to give me the translation, because now we're into
Saraniah Aston: You've got your own is a
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, hot is anxiety. Okay.
Saraniah Aston: Cool slate com
Got it.
Saraniah Aston: So you
Saraniah Aston: Really allowed
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh,
Saraniah Aston: But I'm the only one myself from going in really
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, totally, totally translate
Saraniah Aston: Sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's, let's go back to saying
Gwenevere Abriel: Tony
Saraniah Aston: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's, what's the worst thing that can happen if you were insane and you were let in that room.
Saraniah Aston: I would never, I would just go in and change it would never get out
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's take a moment.
Gwenevere Abriel: And breathe together. I know I haven't taught this to you, but I'll do
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of pull. If you can keep that pillar there. It's nice to have something sort of protecting that that belly right to kind of pull the shoulders back a little bit, because what we want to do is even hands under the legs are on sort of that wonder, wonder woman pose, or even
Gwenevere Abriel: Lazy Boy pose and really allow room for error to get in.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'd like you to breathe in through the nose and I'd like you to see if you can expand the belly outward with your in breath, it's really different.
Gwenevere Abriel: You won't feel a lot of movement in your shoulder. It's so different those shoulders will barely move
Gwenevere Abriel: That pillow move. I see it moving that
Saraniah Aston: Means something
Gwenevere Abriel: All the time. That's a great way to see if Tommy's are moving so
Saraniah Aston: So, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice and then on your exhale. You want to prolong it and really push it out nice and slow. So you've got inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then
Saraniah Aston: Now it's hard to do not even know
Gwenevere Abriel: But worth it really worth it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice and slow. Get that tell me all that air out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Feel the air coming out across the lips to right different temperature we can feel the sensation.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I'd like to hear from you what emotion, you're feeling right now. So I'd like to check in with you.
Saraniah Aston: Mm hmm.
Saraniah Aston: Maybe a little bit of insecurity.
Saraniah Aston: From insecurity around
Saraniah Aston: A little bit of insecurity and a child like insecurities. Yeah.
Saraniah Aston: I mean, it doesn't really scare me or anything to show that
Saraniah Aston: I just feel it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So is there a sense of wanting to continue to investigate it to take care of it or do you want to put it in the container or in the container and in the distancing sort of metaphor. What would feel good to
Saraniah Aston: Putting it in the in the container temporarily
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, do you want to put it in a cardboard box.
Saraniah Aston: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
So,
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's do that. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is the childlike insecurity. This is maybe old and insecurity and we'll put it in the box and you and I can bring it out if you're ready.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we agree right that it's a good investment of time and your healing to bring it out we can bring out the childlike insecurity, but you don't have to analyze it. Think about it. If you don't want to. We can do it together.
Is that okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Without the childlike and security.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are you left with, what do you have available to work with today to play with today to enjoy today.
Saraniah Aston: Huh.
Saraniah Aston: Oh well.
Saraniah Aston: packing my movie in the my own place for the first time.
Saraniah Aston: You've got it so
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Saraniah Aston: I'm excited. Back in or organized. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's schedule. Our next appointment.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm thinking about that 11 O'clock spot. Looks like I rejected it for March 30 if you still want it.
Saraniah Aston: Was march 30
Gwenevere Abriel: March three. That's
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, at 11am Tuesday. If you still like this spot.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, that's perfect. To me, that means I get out of bed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Be a nice little constraint there okay so
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you have medication attached to today. Should I be messaging, your doctor.
Saraniah Aston: And he sent it. Basically, I can pick it up later today. So
Gwenevere Abriel: You have enough weight. I got to be really clear. I'm going to make sure you have enough to get you to group.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that right, yeah. Okay. Good. All right. Well, you worked hard today who truly did
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd be curious to see if right, I've got to get you've got enough constraint to get those boxes going if your slide back into bed.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I will see you soon be good to okay
Saraniah Aston: Thank you. Have a good one.
Saraniah Aston: Hey,
Gwenevere Abriel: Ray to see us.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll be right there. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Almost there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you able to hear me.
Ray Casias: Oh yes, I am. No. Okay, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'll be there in just a second. I don't want to eat in front of you have about three more fights.
Ray Casias: Oh, you're fine. Yeah, yeah, you go when, don't worry, don't worry.
Gwenevere Abriel: My choke.
Ray Casias: Oh good here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, while you're doing that, I'm going to open up a note for you. Okay. Looks like two and a half bites. Here I've spread this salad, to the point that it's all weepy and pathetic over three sessions.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now,
Ray Casias: Know when I know exactly what you need.
Gwenevere Abriel: So while I'm still kind of getting it together here. Dr. Gabriel informs me that you're able to
Gwenevere Abriel: Start taking Lyrica. Is that correct, that's
Gwenevere Abriel: Correct. How many days and how you feeling
Ray Casias: I'm this this will be six days today.
Ray Casias: Oh, I haven't noticed any difference yet, but I am aware that it takes a little time and I'm on the lowest, lowest possible dose so
Ray Casias: But I'm just happy to get the ball rolling with it.
Ray Casias: Because it really is. It's
Ray Casias: It makes sense for me to take it.
Ray Casias: It's almost like kind of low. I mean, I don't have unrealistic expectations for it, but it
Ray Casias: Is it is relevant to a bunch of different
Ray Casias: Things that I'm Dr message it is anti epileptic it is
Ray Casias: Not will work on the
Ray Casias: Should help with the phantom pain in my
Ray Casias: Arm with the amputation. That should help with the with the neuropathy game.
Ray Casias: So bonus for me just, you know, the cabinet.
Ray Casias: And I'm
Ray Casias: Hoping this season.
Ray Casias: Good results out of the low dose, because then that would mean I can only get better from there.
Gwenevere Abriel: I would not be great and all the people I think you'll register those incremental progresses, you know,
Ray Casias: Yeah, I
Ray Casias: Mean you know it, it's really helpful that I really learned how to meditate and how to just just
Ray Casias: Take inventory on everything and then into
Ray Casias: Listen to how
Ray Casias: Everything field.
Ray Casias: Get feedback from all of my pain everywhere.
Ray Casias: That might may want to recognize it.
Ray Casias: For what it is. So I'll be able to. Yeah, I'll be able to register change any any minute change. I think we spend a lot of time.
Ray Casias: Intention of that kind of stuff just to get a grip.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me just touch on other demands of your life. You've talked about medication sort of an awareness of the added skills that you have the meditation, the sort of changing the meaning of the pain you're leaning into it, investigating it more right you're you're starting to
Gwenevere Abriel: You've gained those skills over the months and years, and
Gwenevere Abriel: What about other domains, your life. I like to always check in.
Gwenevere Abriel: Residence financial you in a role of husband you enroll a father housemate etc. I would just like to touch how those are doing. Are they getting worse. Are they getting better. Just want to hear a little bit about your interpersonal environment.
Ray Casias: I'm going to turn off my video for a second if it improves this but I get the gist of what did that but it's kind of funny now.
Yeah.
Ray Casias: Itself.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, test, test,
Gwenevere Abriel: Test test test.
Ray Casias: Yeah, that's
Ray Casias: That seems better um okay so
Ray Casias: I'm
Ray Casias: With my daughters are going very well.
Ray Casias: Daughter
Ray Casias: That has my new grandchild is kind of
Ray Casias: I understand how outrageously busy things are with earth, so I don't we kind of
Ray Casias: Doesn't have a whole lot of time for me right now and I get it, I get it.
Ray Casias: But that you make, make my way to see my grandson amazing
Ray Casias: Everything's going good with my daughters my living situation is still crap.
Ray Casias: But I am working on it. I mean,
Ray Casias: So I
Ray Casias: Mean
Ray Casias: described it properly.
Ray Casias: I you know I feel like I i
Ray Casias: My living situations and
Ray Casias: There are, I either
Ray Casias: Need there needs to be a compromise here where it gets a little bit better for me and livable, or I need, I need to
Ray Casias: Just get my own place and take care of my own needs.
Ray Casias: And so I in the past weeks.
Ray Casias: Through through all this. You know, I feel like
Ray Casias: It feels like I kind of
Ray Casias: Let me try to
Ray Casias: describe this to Glen, so like throughout the addiction and throughout and going through all of the pain and the amputation, and all that stuff all the major heavy hitters
Ray Casias: I feel like
Ray Casias: I was just condensed into this, this
Ray Casias: This tiny little mouse in the corner, without being, you know, I felt like I couldn't
Ray Casias: Be assertive, I lost my sense of self worth, and I allowed a lot of people to exploit that.
Ray Casias: I just, I don't know how to explain it other than I feel like I've emerged from that I feel like I've gotten back a good great deal of my sense of self worth, and I feel like I can
Ray Casias: Scratch that. I know I can be assertive, because I've demonstrated it here in the past week.
Ray Casias: Because
Ray Casias: With that
Ray Casias: Realization realization of my own word, it's kind of, it's kind of been
Ray Casias: It's not a
Ray Casias: I'm not walking on eggshells anymore.
Ray Casias: And I'm okay. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's
Gwenevere Abriel: That's huge.
Yeah.
Ray Casias: It is it is huge and it feels huge and
Ray Casias: I'm you know i'm not
Ray Casias: Not only do the do the does there need to be boundaries. There needs to be some sort of compromise here.
Ray Casias: Or I need to do.
Ray Casias: You know, and I'm not speaking in a selfish way at all. I'm speaking just just practically to live the best I can with what I have left and make the best of what I have not an easy thing to do. And now I don't need things like this to make it harder.
Ray Casias: I need my wife to understand and compromise and not just be indifferent to my needs and
Ray Casias: And the things that are
Ray Casias: getting in the way here.
Ray Casias: I mean, apathy is one thing and you know I can't, I can't change that, if that's what she's feeling but
Ray Casias: I can't be accepting of just
Ray Casias: Okay, well, that's, that's what I haven't. Okay then.
Ray Casias: I don't feel like that's right
Gwenevere Abriel: Give me us when were you assertive. Tell me something, you said maybe to your wife, where that sort of says, look at me, where normally, you know, a year ago, six months ago, I would not have said this, I can assert my needs. I can speak my truth. When did you, when did you do that. Tell me.
Ray Casias: All oh well just just last week I had
Ray Casias: I had to
Ray Casias: Know, whenever it comes to speaking about this kind of thing.
Ray Casias: My wife has been kind of stonewalling me all this time and
Ray Casias: So,
Ray Casias: I will. I wanted to talk about
Ray Casias: Moving moving now if we can't make it work out.
Ray Casias: And that involves that's a huge discussion about it involves a lot of a lot of little we have to separate all these little
Ray Casias: My new. I mean, I need. I would need to know what bills on the spot. Before we have to
Gwenevere Abriel: Be interrupted.
Just
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you speak with your wife.
Ray Casias: That you speak with her.
Gwenevere Abriel: About a contingency plan for your moving out.
Ray Casias: Yes, I had to didn't want to but I I made this conversation happen.
Gwenevere Abriel: And was it how far back.
Ray Casias: Last week okay now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I get it. You don't explain to me. I get it. What did she say what she said.
Ray Casias: didn't handle it well.
Ray Casias: For one thing,
Ray Casias: And
Ray Casias: It was but
Ray Casias: It was like I was speaking to her parents on the matter. I mean, she was mirroring how they would handle something it
Ray Casias: Was not good. She, she was not
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I get it, I get she made it about her.
Ray Casias: I mean,
Gwenevere Abriel: She hated about her instead of about your express concern and your need to kind of get clear and do a lot of planning. She made it about her emotional reaction to what you were talking about. I'm assuming
Ray Casias: Exactly.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that is off topic because
Gwenevere Abriel: Planning needs to be done her emotional reaction.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. But the whole point is is dear, you're not emotionally responding to me. That's my point. So there's there's a lot going on in this this exchange. She didn't handle it well. And where are you left with this now.
Where's the volley.
Ray Casias: Well, he
Ray Casias: stayed on point and
Ray Casias: If nothing else, I made
Ray Casias: All of my thoughts on the matter and all of the
Ray Casias: You know, I made it.
Ray Casias: I just laid it all out. I mean, I
Ray Casias: I was going to be heard that day.
Ray Casias: If it killed me so
Ray Casias: She knows where I stand on the matter.
Ray Casias: And she knows that I'm I'm open to the discussion if she wants to
Ray Casias: I'm hoping she's thinking about it.
Ray Casias: And I hope she comes to me with
Ray Casias: Questions and better
Gwenevere Abriel: I lost connection for just a second.
Ray Casias: I have a really bad connection today, what
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, is it winning someone had said the wind effects things I didn't know if that was the truth because I don't understand how that would work, but
Ray Casias: Maybe it's a little breezy, but it's not
Not
Ray Casias: Not bad. I'm not sure what's going on here.
Ray Casias: I'm gonna try to switch to why
Gwenevere Abriel: Test test test.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good for me. Can you hear me. Yes. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you are assertive. That's part of
Gwenevere Abriel: A goal that you and I have talked about being able to sort of assert sort of self in this way and and you did it and
The difference is when
Ray Casias: Because I've been
Ray Casias: Assertive to two different degrees. And one of the differences with this what I just did.
Ray Casias: Was I I went all the way and I didn't feel bad about it. Usually I feel bad, like, gosh. She has, she's dealing with all there. And then I'm laying this on and and and start feeling bad about stuff and you know
Ray Casias: I just didn't feel bad about it. I felt like I was just completely right about what I was saying and I i I'm not Mike, I'm this guy who thinks he's always right about everything.
Ray Casias: If I can be proven wrong about something that's one of the coolest things that I love it. Prove me wrong. Tell me I'm wrong, or
Ray Casias: I could see things differently. I welcome that I'm, you know, so I hope she I just want her to think about things because I'm completely reasonable and any reservation. She has if its reasonable. Like, I don't want to hear this.
Ray Casias: You're leaving me crap because that's just crap, I'm not leaving her. I'm trying to live.
Ray Casias: And she's
Ray Casias: You know I want her more than I want anything else. And she has every opportunity to make it work with me. So in the past.
Ray Casias: I would feel bad about it and I don't right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is amazing. You re held on to yourself. And one of the reasons why I noticed in your language. You're saying this is true. I'm right. I'm right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I might choose a different language to to capture it, I might say,
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no debating that this is my truth.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is my reality. I need you to check on me a few times a day. This is part of what I need. I have an expectation for this partnership, sweetheart. Are you willing to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I understand you're having an emotional reaction to this, but you are a grown woman I've seen your strength, can you please tell me, are you able to give this it has come to this direct question.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it has come over years that I have fine tuned exactly right now what it is I have taken the time to ask and a much
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you out of love for me and for us. Can you check on me a few times a day. Can I rely on you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now we're talking about me. We'll talk about your emotional experience of this word I'm moving out we can get into that later, but right now I'm the one bringing this topic up. Can you tell me
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe you need some time to think about it, sweetheart, but I have brought the for us a question that has taken a lot of time to come up with. You see it, it's your truth. That's why it's true. You feel it. You thought it you need it. That's not up for debate.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no argument here. So it's not you see this not her proving it wrong. It's
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now you need to be heard. She needs to hear you later on an hour later, two hours later, then it's your turn to listen to her hi got really scared, you're going to leave me brings up all my router router childhood router Roz
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, fine, but Ray, you have been putting aside what you need in any given moment for way too long.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I bet you felt really good standing your emotional ground.
Gwenevere Abriel: And speaking your truth.
Ray Casias: I did and I do and I still feel good about it.
Ray Casias: And and
Ray Casias: When I speak of, like, yeah, yeah. My name is a little wrong on on that because what I'm, what I'm meeting. Is it that she sees
Ray Casias: Somewhere where I because it is it's so I'm so confident in it because I've considered
Ray Casias: So much
Ray Casias: And if she and it's to a point where if she sees
Ray Casias: Anything in in
Ray Casias: What I was saying that fails to consider her and I want to hear about it, but because I don't think that I did that in any in any of it because I
Ray Casias: I always consider everything
Gwenevere Abriel: I know you have and the differences
Gwenevere Abriel: I know that
Gwenevere Abriel: The step I think for you has been you a light switch went on, you know, that true for you. You don't need
Gwenevere Abriel: to betray abandon yourself in the moment with someone accuses you you're being selfish, not thinking about me. If you know it's true. You are a conscientious, man.
Gwenevere Abriel: No one can accuse you otherwise and get away with it, you will not be emotionally hijacked by anyone you know your truth so you can sit there with false accusations, the world can be just acting completely insane.
Gwenevere Abriel: And there you are. Still, this is still a reality would be convenient if you would stop spinning around and just see me.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's holding on to you that's assertive. That's that I'm not on eggshells I'm here. This is real. I'm going to speak my truth.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wish. Yes, of course. I wish she handled it better. Yes, I do.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm sorry, it didn't, I'm really sorry, but I'm proud of you for holding on to your truth even though your environment, keep saying to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is the way you were raised your you had a very invalidating environment invalidation invalidation invalidation over and over and over and over again. It is familiar and comfortable may not comfortable familiar for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you've had it. You're pressed up against.
Gwenevere Abriel: The big right but you've got a lot at stake here. So no more time to waste.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, it's taken that much of a push. You don't have to wait so long you have just as much right to your truth.
Gwenevere Abriel: As someone who who's unburdened right with with the pains that you've had, who had those rights all along, and it saddens me that you didn't have someone to say, well, what's on your mind. Speak up. What is it,
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, I wish you did, but it's never too late. You get to enjoy this moment. And really, really, really see
Gwenevere Abriel: That it's not about a fact finding miss it mission waiting for someone to tell me I'm wrong. That's the facts. That's knowledge. I've read this. There's a counter research evidence piece. There's okay. No, no, there won't be one, for I am sad. They'll just be you were sad now.
Gwenevere Abriel: In therapy right we might relive it, we might re experience it. We might re process it. But if you tell me this, whatever it is, it's coming up for you. I'm not going to say no, it's not.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to ask you, do you want it to stay that way or do you want to remember it differently. And then we can do some some interventions just sort of shifted around and change it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Re
Gwenevere Abriel: With the time that you have here.
Gwenevere Abriel: In therapy right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: What would feel the best. Would it be learning something new about yourself, would it be a sense of relief. Would it be excitement about the future. Would it be
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know what
Gwenevere Abriel: But think about what you want to leave with today. You want to come away with
Gwenevere Abriel: From our time together.
Ray Casias: Take a minute with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, please do.
Ray Casias: So,
Ray Casias: Even though I feel
Ray Casias: I'll just talk about it. So we can like Bill
Ray Casias: Even though I feel I
Ray Casias: Feel like
Ray Casias: I'm glad that I was able to find this ground where I could
Ray Casias: Be assertive and
Ray Casias: I feel strong with it.
Ray Casias: I
Ray Casias: Don't want this situation to wear me down. I guess I deep down I feel like
Ray Casias: I don't want to
Ray Casias: I want to lose 30 minutes. I don't want to resort back to
Ray Casias: Any of that other crap i mean i i feel like between her parents being the way they are and
Ray Casias: Her just really trying to avoid
Ray Casias: Dealing with this.
Ray Casias: I guess I'm I don't know what I'm trying to say here.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think I heard you.
Gwenevere Abriel: You want to hold on to this confidence.
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't want it to.
Gwenevere Abriel: Disappear.
Gwenevere Abriel: start seeing the risk in continuing to be assertive. Maybe I'll put other people first. And I'll lose myself again. And I might get depressed again because of it. Am I getting close.
Ray Casias: Yeah, you know, I
Ray Casias: Just, just thinking about middle
Ray Casias: Ways to that I tried to assert myself in the past year and try to put my foot down and about know all this time and I keep what she'll do is tell me what I want to hear and do what I wanted to do for a couple of days or a week or something and then it's just right back to
Ray Casias: The the
Ray Casias: The indifference in that apathy and it just stuck because I feel like
Ray Casias: And I, I
Ray Casias: Spoke my mind about that as well. I mean, I let her know that I'm aware, because it's so
Ray Casias: Consistent me that way and do it and do it. Do it. And I made it. I let her know that I'm not interested in that, I want
Ray Casias: Us to move on from this and do so. Can you okay together, you know,
Ray Casias: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's the thing you're in a pattern. Do you know that you participate in the pattern. I know. This one's really hard for people to swallow. But you're a participant.
Ray Casias: Yes, I know that. And I don't know exactly. I've been exploring know
Ray Casias: How am I contributing Oh my, keeping it
Gwenevere Abriel: So when someone says they're sorry
Gwenevere Abriel: Some of that actually mean sorry, as in I promise, God willing to never do it again, basically.
Gwenevere Abriel: That means I'm sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that the same definition you have
Gwenevere Abriel: I won't do it again, God willing
Gwenevere Abriel: All my intention, God willing, right. I won't do it.
Ray Casias: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you mean leave her apology.
Gwenevere Abriel: does she keep her promises over these years and months know
Gwenevere Abriel: You have enough history. Now, who's the crazy person you that keeps ignoring
Gwenevere Abriel: This or her
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Who's going crazy.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know these are hard to hear. They're really, really hard. But what I'm suggesting is this, you have a pattern set in place. And believe it or not, you're reinforcing
Gwenevere Abriel: The fact that she only has to do it for a few days you'll get upset. You'll basically you'll disappear. You'll get depressed, then maybe you'll speak up. She's not accountable then she'll do a fluffy apology and rinse and repeat.
Gwenevere Abriel: But if I'm throwing this out because you did. But if you opt out of that particular game and you stop reinforcing it and you just move out the discussion is over. You don't talk anymore. You already laid it out. It's now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is your credibility there. In other words, you spoke words.
Gwenevere Abriel: You made a promise you said if you continue along this line I'm moving out. Now I don't know if that's what you said, I'm making up a story here. You fill in the truth.
Gwenevere Abriel: You fill in the facts and then of course there's nothing more to say stroke promise I don't again go back and say, Tell me you're going to make her promise you an empty promise. Again, it's you can't keep
Ray Casias: right on the mark that is right where I was.
Ray Casias: I was right on the edge of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's where we participate
Ray Casias: Okay, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's in your this this gift that you give ray and you give it so generously of forgiveness. It's beautiful, spiritual and enviable
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't mean that it's needed all the time for all the people
Gwenevere Abriel: She needs.
Gwenevere Abriel: Accountability to her own life.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the reality is, she's about to lose the best man she's ever had.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I don't mean forever. I just mean nearby. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's real you. You're either going to do it or you're not. You see what I'm saying. It's like, that's real. Or you can keep this game up I'm going to tell you you're gonna pretend that it's fine. And then all
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Okay, go ahead.
Ray Casias: Another thing.
Ray Casias: Oh, no.
Ray Casias: When I think of moving away. I mean, I don't think, oh, I'm not thinking, well, okay, well that's it with you. I want us to can be I want us to work on things. I want us to try to get what we had back and I don't see it happening here with this gigantic wedge between us.
Ray Casias: Um, but, but in to her. It's like if you okay well if you move out, then we're done.
Ray Casias: I'll ferry back
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, this is this is hard. I know this is really hard.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember, well I'll share. I remember
Gwenevere Abriel: When you were applying some new things that you learned in our discussions and you were applying it and it was working
Gwenevere Abriel: You were addressing some projection that was going on and communication, you're using more I feel statements, your relationship with her was good. And then she went back to her family of origin, she regressed to the behaviors that she developed when she was younger.
Gwenevere Abriel: Unattractive, true.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now I know you just said, we're done. From there, but
Gwenevere Abriel: What if
Gwenevere Abriel: It was also possible that she doesn't know her own strength.
Gwenevere Abriel: Unless you go
Gwenevere Abriel: You go, you get your own place. And she sees you there and misses you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And sees the frickin insanity. That's in her home the sickness, for which she grew up in and Mrs you and you keep along the lines I miss you. I want to see you come over
Gwenevere Abriel: That other stuff was fear, you're afraid of what that meant. I'm not leaving you, it's we are marriage is unrecognizable. And I'm fighting for it. Please come over here. I remember how we were you seem to have forgotten I miss you. I miss you. I miss you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what if this last piece of courage.
Gwenevere Abriel: She sees your courage and what if she comes and joins you and leaves the insanity and comes to you.
Ray Casias: Hoping for and all of it. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can't make it a contingency. It's just remember your life. What I hear over here, of course, right, is that your life is on the line for me when you're getting to suicidal ideation, it's time for a change.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you have now butted up against life threatening dis ease and now volitional taking your own life, like it is time to do right by you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the world can catch up to your pace.
Ray Casias: Really build that
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you know how earlier several I don't want it to be over in the back somewhere of hope for mystery or love or something. Is there any
Gwenevere Abriel: Memory of
Gwenevere Abriel: Something like that happening before where she would get drawn into this sort of toxic way of being.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then would make her way back to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that maybe that's possible. Again, much like maybe she did when she was younger. Is there a way to say maybe that's possible again.
Ray Casias: Yeah, because, I mean,
Ray Casias: We've, we've had. We've had our time just like any anybody else in a relationship.
Ray Casias: That just fit. I mean 21 years
And
Ray Casias: No matter what happened. I mean, we've always been about
Gwenevere Abriel: Her family. How did she leave that house.
Gwenevere Abriel: When she left her family of origin. How did she get out
Ray Casias: Of
Ray Casias: Me.
Ray Casias: I took. I took her from it. Um, I mean, because I
Gwenevere Abriel: married her or something. Would you do to get her out of that.
Ray Casias: Yes, yes, we got married and and I
Ray Casias: I worked on a down payment for a house.
Ray Casias: On once I could cure everything
Ray Casias: We had been engaged and once I secured everything and I knew
Ray Casias: It was happening then we got married.
Gwenevere Abriel: The 22nd year you're redoing it look you're going in securing a house.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that might be what's happening.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then she can leave again and you'll be there. What if that's it instead of that thing she's acting out
Gwenevere Abriel: This hopelessness that was her environment. She has completely merged and identified with her family, which is this our rational stuff here, leaving me. It leaves no rational thinking it's just no
Gwenevere Abriel: But it sounds very. That's why I was asking you those questions because it could be the same way you did it before you'll go you'll go get yourself a residence. She has a real clear. This is where I'm going to land.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, I'm going to land with him. I'm going to land here. It's going to be okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know what's possible. You know, as far as
Gwenevere Abriel: What you're thinking of but
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think, What if this was possible. Isn't that a little bit more exciting than
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to revert back. What if you continue along with your passion. What if you continued along with faith that she will remember what you guys have. She just can't do it right now.
Ray Casias: I I hold on to that, like, that is my hope.
Ray Casias: Of course,
Ray Casias: I have to have to keep reminding myself that even if that doesn't happen.
Ray Casias: I'm do I'm doing what I
Ray Casias: What I feel like
Ray Casias: I have to do.
Ray Casias: In doing something because
Ray Casias: I mean, it's
Ray Casias: It hyperbolic, but I'm just wasting away rotten away here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me ask you something in this place that you're thinking of, will you have like
Gwenevere Abriel: Some kind of nurse or someone that can kind of keep an eye on you, like, how will it work as an assistant, you'll have someone paid that can keep an eye on. Yeah.
Ray Casias: Yes, yes. For for like a few hours a day.
Ray Casias: And then I think I'm just gonna
Ray Casias: I am going to move move really near my daughter so I can do my grandbaby boy he's made me
Ray Casias: And you
Ray Casias: Can pop in on the few
Gwenevere Abriel: She will
Ray Casias: Oh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't want to get away from that she's gonna go visit you. She's gonna see the baby, she's gonna feel good and love and she's gonna recognize that sucks. This feels good. I like when I'm here, I'm not going freaking crazy. I'm guessing should recognize yourself again with you.
Ray Casias: That is the hope that I'm holding on to
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, it's secondary. First one is taking care of you. Because we gotta let go of too much anticipation of the outcome of their but I'm just throwing it out that it doesn't have to be the We're over. I don't want you like I mean like grieving into the relationship
Gwenevere Abriel: It could turn out great but somebody has to make a change. Somebody has to change the game. Yeah.
Ray Casias: She, she's the one with the with the
Ray Casias: You know it it being over stuff i i don't i don't mean it to be over in any way by moving away from here, I just need. I need to do it. I need it.
Ray Casias: It's not even like if I could, if my neat could be met here with her, then I wouldn't even
Ray Casias: And I was living. Okay, then I wouldn't consider it wouldn't even come up, but it's her that they're saying, well, okay, well if you moved in. We're done. That's it.
Ray Casias: And
Ray Casias: I don't, I don't believe that. I mean, yeah. Well, I think there's a part of you that's
Gwenevere Abriel: Allowing her what she's saying out loud to be true, yet you know this other scenario I just threw out is another future alternative. We don't know what it's going to be, but you also have
Gwenevere Abriel: History where crazy, crazy parents you like the woman you get her out and things worked out, you might be doing it again. It might turn out great.
I
Ray Casias: I feel that I see that I think
Ray Casias: That's the way I picture it happening. I mean,
Ray Casias: I don't know.
Ray Casias: I don't know how it will turn out. I just want to keep in my mind that
Ray Casias: Doing what I have to do good.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I want to reinforce it. I haven't heard one thing from you. That sounded irrational. I haven't heard one thing that sounded selfish. I haven't heard one thing that was
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, without investment in the relationship in the things that you really care about. I haven't heard anything irrational and when I did. I called it out I named it
Gwenevere Abriel: So just as one other human being. Anyway, I'm not hearing anything that's outside of the norm. You have to take care of yourself. You have to. You can't do it there. You're not going to be any good to anybody, you just won't be now that's know that that can't be an alternative but just right.
Gwenevere Abriel: We need blogging.
Ray Casias: Um okay so
Ray Casias: Advice on
Ray Casias: Know you already. Okay.
Ray Casias: Now you already covered it so
Gwenevere Abriel: You ever need anything for me as a in the marriage piece now 20 this year ago or so, more than happy for you to meet together.
Ray Casias: I wish I could give you that.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're saying Wait let's throw it out there just play with it, you're walking around, or however you kind of right you're in there and you're on the screen you have me on there and you say, sweetie. Look, this is her say hi to my therapist high and that's it.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's See I'm real what she might like. Oh, that wasn't as bad as I thought. And you didn't make her talk. Just remember she's the lady said hi to you can't picture that random thing happening.
Ray Casias: I can try. I mean, I'm not
Ray Casias: I wouldn't rule it out without trying it. I don't know.
Ray Casias: I mean, because that if we, if I can get to a point where we could both
Ray Casias: talk this out this way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's the
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's, here's where some your skill of self sacrifice could be used conveniently right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you can compartmentalize and just really feel heard and validated from me, like in here and you say okay this is how I'm gonna see if I can get her into these, these can joint sessions. I'll say, sweetheart.
Gwenevere Abriel: That those feelings you have when you said if I will have out. We're over.
Gwenevere Abriel: Would you be able to come in here and tell me how you feel in therapy. I won't talk about why I think it's a good idea. It'll all be anything you want. I will literally just listen and my therapist will make sure I only listen to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: It would be, you know, there was right at it'd be you. I have to take care of you sort of ahead of time and make sure you are resilient and ready to take in.
Gwenevere Abriel: Some nonsense. Maybe not. Maybe she'll say something that's really cool. Are you really like hearing what's going on. Maybe she'll be able to describe the term level what it's like to be her. Maybe he'll like
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know. But in order to get her in. You might sell it with this idea. I won't say anything. My therapist really wants to you to have the space to be able to share with this has been like for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'll just listen. Sweetheart, to feel heard by me, she'll say no.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's how you get her in. I will shut up and I will just listen now between you and Andre. That's not the issue. I already know you listen
Gwenevere Abriel: So, this is this is a little conniving, but we get if it works, we get to say
Gwenevere Abriel: What transparently, we were thinking maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: This once we got in, we would sort of say this and this. This is our, kind of like the plan. Once she's in
Gwenevere Abriel: This is certainly I bring it up. I say, Yeah, we were kind of that's how it works for everybody. Everybody wants to feel heard and so we kind of hoped that maybe by, you know, phrasing it that way and creating this safe space for you that you might want to come by.
Gwenevere Abriel: You won't get advice from going to bear.
Gwenevere Abriel: The only thing she's going to do is make sure that you get to share. She might be teaching the I feel so that there's some structure to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Some I feel statements and maybe if we have time, the mirroring because I love that structure. I really love that people
Gwenevere Abriel: Right can use that to communicate instead of name calling and kitchens thinking bringing up past things and shaming people guilt tripping a lot of damage can be done in a in an argument.
Gwenevere Abriel: See if you can come up with an idea that you think would work for her. And here's the way you might look at it, you look at her and you go
Gwenevere Abriel: What's her unmet need
Gwenevere Abriel: How can therapy, be that for her. Right. And that's how you kind of find your way in
Gwenevere Abriel: Not about you not about you. She's not in a place to choose so wrapped up in self preservation. She just can't.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's merged with her family.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what I
Gwenevere Abriel: Know,
Ray Casias: I think you're right.
Ray Casias: I get it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let's schedule another time to meet
Gwenevere Abriel: What about
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you want to wait two weeks or meet next week, but which you prefer.
Gwenevere Abriel: More than that, it's up to you, you can meet whenever you want to. You've been here long enough. It's up to you.
Ray Casias: Longer than two weeks.
Gwenevere Abriel: I got you. So it won't be week of March six, we'll move it up to
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let's move it to march 11 which is a Wednesday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: March 11 at 12pm
Ray Casias: I go through higher teams like in in between our meetings.
Ray Casias: Such a roller coaster I there's times I'm such a train wreck and I picked myself up.
Ray Casias: And then I think, Man, I got a lot to say to Glenn, but then by the time we see each other again. I kind of get myself together. I'm in
Ray Casias: But you're invaluable though.
Ray Casias: Keep me grounded and
Ray Casias: I you know in this environment. I do need that reinforcement.
Ray Casias: I don't like to feel like I'm losing it, and I and I'm
Ray Casias: Not making sensor or unfair or
Ray Casias: Or anything like that are selfish or anything like
Gwenevere Abriel: You've never you've never come across irrational to me. You never have i mean the the the suicide part was was hard was hard. It may come again but
Gwenevere Abriel: I still get the logic, right, because you you put yourself in such a if I can't assert myself and these people won't help me if I can assert myself. These people won't help me.
Gwenevere Abriel: It can feel hopeless and I get that, but stay in your truth right in that momentum forward. What's the next right thing for you. The next right thing will happen just stay in it, keep it really simple.
Gwenevere Abriel: What am I feeling. What do I need, it's okay give myself permission. It's okay. It's okay if it's coming from me. It's got to be okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know it is. I know your decisions are an investment in self healing and in the marriage and family values. I'm not worried those choices will come from the heart.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I get to see you on Monday. I hope I do
Ray Casias: Yeah yeah
Ray Casias: Yesterday was I had a
Ray Casias: It was a cancellation and gastro I needed to see him sooner. They called me what the cancellation. So I went in.
Ray Casias: But I'll be there be there Monday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'm gonna write it down just a little name here just to kind of say we're thinking we're going to see Ray I have one o'clock.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Be good to you.
Ray Casias: Thank you. Bye.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hello.
Gwenevere Abriel: How are you
Bianca Garcia: Good, thank you. How are you
Excellent.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we are in fuzzy cloud robe today.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: One of the kids been like, what's it like for you to to be a mom of four. What's it like, oh,
Bianca Garcia: Well, definitely. It could be hectic. It could be chaotic stressful overwhelming, but also they are very loving good kids.
Bianca Garcia: You know I every day we spend is cherish do we don't take it for granted.
Gwenevere Abriel: love hearing them. So tell me a little bit about, let's see. What time is it, you may have, let me see. I'm forgetting ages. Do you have to in school right now. How many are home with you've got 10 month old right
Bianca Garcia: Yeah, just heard the three Rs school but two of them get out at two.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right, so let me open up a note for us.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remind me which group you're in
Bianca Garcia: With Dr. Chris
Gwenevere Abriel: Chris element, yeah. Dr element on which day is it is on Friday.
Bianca Garcia: Night Friday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Night, so I'll get to see you on Friday. Okay, good, good, good, good.
Garcia.
Gwenevere Abriel: nobody's home but just the baby. Are there other folks that are around
Bianca Garcia: No, just me and the baby.
Bianca Garcia: What's he doing she's in her swing watching Sesame Street.
Bianca Garcia: Possibly going to take a nap. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can only hope.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Okay, so today.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd like to just sort of generally get an idea of kind of what you already have in your, sort of, this is how what I learned. Maybe in a in a particular
Gwenevere Abriel: Therapy or in treatment or elsewhere, kind of get a sense of what coping skills you already have. So I don't go over something you already know. Okay, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so when you were going to therapy in the past. I think there was a history of you did a residential setting or you only did outpatient, I can't remember.
Bianca Garcia: Oh yeah, patient outpatient only yes
Gwenevere Abriel: And when you were meeting with this therapist, did they teach you any emotional regulation skills.
Bianca Garcia: I believe so, yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like what
Bianca Garcia: Well, I don't really remember it's been like four years that I haven't been there. Well, actually. Yeah, little know actually like over two and a half years or something. But I was there for a while but um
Bianca Garcia: It was also like a parenting class. Do we were able to take our children with us. So I had small child and i don't i don't really know, but I'm sure if you would tell me some stuff I would remember I just not a top of my head right now.
Bianca Garcia: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: But then important because it would need to be on the top of your head.
Bianca Garcia: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Use it. So regardless of whether you're like, oh yeah. Either way, it ain't remembered
Bianca Garcia: Yeah. Yeah, that's true.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's just fine. So if there's nothing that sort of comes
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll just go over some of that I like, just as we're kind of getting to know each other. I'll go over some of the ones that
Gwenevere Abriel: The one people after there right at the end.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you'll start to hear it throughout treatment. You'll hear them say, You know what, I still do. The, the, what I remember is the because it's so useful.
Bianca Garcia: Okay. Thank you, sir.
Gwenevere Abriel: So first thing I want to teach you
Gwenevere Abriel: Is
Gwenevere Abriel: Goes by a lot of different names, but it's box breathing is what I call it also Daya for matic breathing. Now you may say, I don't believe in that.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you don't have to believe in it for it to work, because this is based on your biology.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know how you have the sympathetic nervous system, the one that if someone jumps around the corner, you have a startle response, you're scared, right, or maybe even notice your hands pop up in front of you.
Gwenevere Abriel: You didn't have to think I need to jump back. I need to pull my little paws up ready to protect myself now.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is the sympathetic nervous system automatically there for you to preserve you. Its job is to say, danger, danger, danger, danger, basically. That's all it does. It's scanning all the time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is Bianca in trouble. Is she in danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: Only problem is
Gwenevere Abriel: It might be overused.
Gwenevere Abriel: Too much of the time overreacting. Yes, it was adaptive maybe at one point in a, in a low grade anxiety setting for self preservation is overused. So people will come in here and they'll say I have this anxiety disorder.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm just, I'm just always like, my heart is racing after these short shallow breaths and I'm sweating and I just feel like I i just can't, you know, I'm just so I'm so anxious so stressed. Yeah. Is that something you can relate to.
Yeah. Yeah, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's the sympathetic nervous system. And did you know that the body has a counter acting system.
Bianca Garcia: No, I didn't.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, our body so smart.
Bianca Garcia: I'm here. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Amazing. It's a miracle. It's the parasympathetic nervous system. And that's what we're going to talk about today.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't have to believe in it. It's been there all along. It's not cicala here it's it's physiology, which of course also is psychology. But for now, we'll just sort of say, let's just say it's biological
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's what actually is happening when we do the box breathing and I'll teach it in a minute after I stop yapping about them what it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: I promise we'll do it unless we get disconnected. But, um, so basically, I'll be teaching you this box breathing and the mechanism of influence or change is the fact that when you freeze the way I'm going to go over it with you the bottom of your long because air.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not up here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because, look how
Gwenevere Abriel: Is not how we breathe when we're scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Yep. So, what will be really different is the bottom of our long will get air our diaphragm that thing that's right in the middle of our body that separates the top viscera from the bottom, the one that gives us the hiccups. You know that one.
Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to be pushing it down with a full lung and then we're going to be smoking all those organs on the bottom.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's not what's actually activating the parasympathetic nervous system there a nerve that runs brain ears, eyes, face larynx bearings heart, lungs, stomach. Oh, most of our organs. It's wrapped around and it's called the Vegas nerve.
Gwenevere Abriel: All the wandering there for a reason and waters all over the place. And because it's all kind of wrapped around the organs right below that diaphragm. When we breathe deep. We go reach motion.
Gwenevere Abriel: That sends a message a fair. Currently, which means down here, up to the brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: It sends a message up to the brain, which is busy thinking, Oh my gosh, we're going to die right the brains physically go, oh, this is awful. This is catastrophic home. I can't stand it. So, the mind is busy thinking horrible this this awful.
Gwenevere Abriel: We do when we breathe. We have a contradictory message coming from the
Bianca Garcia: Nerve
Gwenevere Abriel: To the brain in contradiction to a threat response.
And
Gwenevere Abriel: Guess what can you have a belly breath when you're here.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're up here.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you have a nice big breasts. You know what message that sense. Oh, we're fine. If this lady can have a big belly breath there can't be a lion tiger bear are summit about to reject us criticize us abandoned us yell at us hit us.
Gwenevere Abriel: molest Nope. There is
Gwenevere Abriel: No danger. That is the message that you're sending in contradiction to the OH MY GOSH thought, Oh, oh no, then up comes this thought
Gwenevere Abriel: And the body down regulates
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's called the Vegas break right because it's the Vegas nerve. So we call it the big break and it puts the brakes on all of that sympathetic nervous system that activation. So it's really exciting. So remember how I started and I said, you don't have to believe it for it to work.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what I like about it. This is science.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your body knows how to heal itself and it's beautiful.
Bianca Garcia: Right, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, any questions about just the the biology of it before I teach it to you.
Bianca Garcia: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: familia. Remember I said I wanted to check in on things you already know.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to check in, you know, this word mind fullness.
Bianca Garcia: Yes, I've heard it. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: So in this field of behavioral health psychology and all that, it's used a lot and I like to use it in terms of
Gwenevere Abriel: Awareness. So I don't really focus on things you here and we might have a little debates about the meaning of words or beliefs about yourself, or how you're feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: But I'll also be interested in how things feel tact tactically like your skin. How things feel on your hands, your arms, your legs, your viscera your lungs your throat. I'm going to be getting into what I call the soma, the somatic awareness.
Gwenevere Abriel: So when you're breathing, you're going to pay attention to the air coming in through your nose, you'll feel a little hairs wiggling maybe it comes in and you're going to have that air come down into your belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the difference is is that you're going to have your hands here on your belly and they will push out on the inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your stomach will go out on the inhale and it can be a pretty foreign experience. If you've never done it before. But what you'll notice is, instead of watch my shoulders. I'm going to do the breathing the way most people freeze, which is this
Gwenevere Abriel: You see my shoulders.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now I'm going to do a belly breath and watch my shoulders.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, not the big
Gwenevere Abriel: So right now, you're being
Gwenevere Abriel: You're being
Gwenevere Abriel: Tommy. Why is it a she, or or a boy. What we're talking about here. Yeah, so she you see her land on on the changing better in her little bed right she has a little belly. That goes up and down, and she reads from her belly and it's so cute. And we forgot how to do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we can do it again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it'll be I'll go over it a few times a model it for you. I'll do it for you. And then we'll do it together. Okay, so I'm going to just describe the box part. So it's inhaling
Gwenevere Abriel: Just enter this little ringer off.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to be inhaling being mindful of how things feel tactful tactile in through the nose for four seconds. It'll be
Gwenevere Abriel: Into the belly. Right. It'll be the skin Hale for four seconds in nearly
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you'll hold your breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: You won't find that this is a natural thing. This is a really
Gwenevere Abriel: Takes a lot of concentration. To do this, breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Who asked him to if a breath, we can hold the breath. So we're going to hold it, you can do it for for a second semi brace that creates this perfect box and then we hold the breath for 4321 then we're going to exhale it feeling the air out of our mouth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Whole
Gwenevere Abriel: Now that was shoulders. Right. I needed it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I was just sort of teaching it. And I kind of blow it there, but you're going to want to inhale, with the belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or four seconds. Hold that air for four seconds. Exhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Four seconds hold for for most people don't like those last four. We don't have to pull for, for we can just do it for a couple seconds.
Gwenevere Abriel: So then as far do you have all the exhale out. That's fine. Doesn't matter. But for teaching. I like to keep it simple for for for for for
Gwenevere Abriel: See that failed and you're holding that breath out your concentrated way push all that air out. I gotta hold that breath out. And then the inhale through the nose. Remember the mechanism that gets that Vegas nerve is what do you remember
Bianca Garcia: I'm the no
Gwenevere Abriel: Air
Gwenevere Abriel: The air going in the bottom of your lung we. That's it. It's that belly breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we if box is too hard. Remember will call it belly breath. That way we can have that word in their hands, push out because the air went down low. It won't be. You won't, it won't feel like you're
Gwenevere Abriel: As big actually because it's actually a hard feeling to do just kind of put your hands. They're just play with it a little bit. See if you can even do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just watch your hands. Don't look at me, look at your own hands on your tummy. Inhale and see me go out on the inhale. See if you can even do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you just moved so I can't see your hands. Unfortunately, you may want to
Bianca Garcia: Oh, should I put him or down.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you may want to turn the camera so I can be of service, see, okay. Beautiful. OK, so now put your hands on your belly. And now, inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Up when you went in the top. Try it again and this time just free push those hands out so you get a big Cuccinelli on the inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yo, but it feels really different. When you send it to
The
Gwenevere Abriel: Art. Moving. Does it feel different.
Bianca Garcia: When you try that again.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not be doing it right. So watch those hands get a nice
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice and flat. Okay, so push against the belly. And now I want you to watch them and I'm inhale those hands are going to go out because you're filling in the bottom of the one imagine you're filling in the top of the long and then pushing those hands out
Bianca Garcia: So when I'm inhaling
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, ma'am, not up there on the top of your lungs. You got to have it. You gotta send it all the way down because I'm still watching the shoulders move a little bit
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, it's hard to do. I told you.
Bianca Garcia: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Everybody knows how to break but
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see if we can
Gwenevere Abriel: Self up here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Everybody thinks this is so easy. I know.
Bianca Garcia: I say this not actually. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I try to tell people know once you really get this, but it'll make a huge difference when you're in distress. It'll calm you down. Just like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's see. Can you see. Can you see my my tummy here.
Bianca Garcia: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm pushing on it now. Just try, don't even worry about breath. I want you to see if you can just push it out with your belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Watch your hand push them out, push out your belly. Just push it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can take any isn't moving out.
Bianca Garcia: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, now I want you to
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to expand. You're going to bring the area in the top of the lung, and then it's going to go all the way to the bottom and then those hands are going to move out. So here we go. I'm exhaling. Now I'm inhaling
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, move much I gotta tell you they don't move much
Bianca Garcia: Okay, I felt that a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: I saw that one. Do it again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Bianca Garcia: See, you don't know
Gwenevere Abriel: Take a breath right versus when you were breathing at the top.
There was like
Bianca Garcia: I think when you said exhale. And then inhale, or or one or the other. First, that's when I checked it the most, I believe.
Bianca Garcia: I did the exhale first and then
Bianca Garcia: I don't know. I felt it though.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's do this one together. So what I'm going to do is I'll say, inhale will inhale for for for count. That's the belly breath, that's the one you just learned. You got to push out that belly and then you'll see me do this for 321 exhale
And then it'll be very
Bianca Garcia: Good I stand for this I
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, but I remember I was saying earlier, I think in group that you're going to want to have that phone propped up somewhere. This is why a lot of our activities are going to be. Yeah, we're going to need to be moving around and doing different things together.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's not just talk therapy. So maybe put me on a bookshelf, or somewhere in the kitchen. I don't care where you put me. But let's have me propped up so that you can really experienced this. Once you get this, you're going to be able to use it anytime you want. So
Bianca Garcia: Let me see where I could go cuz I in my room. I just have a TV Dan and it's too low. So, uh, let's see. Maybe the
Gwenevere Abriel: medicine cabinet. There's shelving maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: And then in the
Bianca Garcia: Net that
Gwenevere Abriel: Dish dish so stand back a little bit, you will be able to breathe that way. There we go. Gorgeous. Don't move. Okay, so here we go. So I'm going to just going to teach it again. You catch up. You catch up to me with the breathing okay on your own time. So I'm going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold
Gwenevere Abriel: To one exhale
Gwenevere Abriel: Whole
Gwenevere Abriel: Mess. The whole. Yeah, right. I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's intuitive. So let's watch this is what it'll be it'll be in hell for four seconds holding our breath for source four seconds.
Gwenevere Abriel: Exhaling for four seconds and then, believe it or not holding our breath out for four seconds. Inhaling, can't wait to get to that in. Look at your back so exciting. We don't have to wait for a second. So we're gonna do it again.
So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Push it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold
Bianca Garcia: To
Gwenevere Abriel: One exhale it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 32121321 in the belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Call 321321 push those hands out
Gwenevere Abriel: And push it all out nice flat belly, push, push, push, all that air out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold
Gwenevere Abriel: To be always the bottom of the one
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold
Gwenevere Abriel: On
Hold
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold on, hold, hold.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold
Bianca Garcia: To
Gwenevere Abriel: One inhale through the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 excellent
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold me to one in helping belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 so
Gwenevere Abriel: Inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Exhale,
Gwenevere Abriel: And then on your on your on count.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, Bianca, you are doing an amazing job.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's it.
Bianca Garcia: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, were you able to think about anything else that this breathing.
Bianca Garcia: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: It takes so much concentration
Bianca Garcia: Yes, yes it does.
Gwenevere Abriel: You want to get back by your baby or you want to stay in here. What do I do
Bianca Garcia: Yes, I'll keep you where you can see
Bianca Garcia: He's right here.
Bianca Garcia: Probably not far. Okay.
So,
Bianca Garcia: Let's see where I could put you higher up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Little, little soap dish a little something in front of me. So I don't fall. Whatever it takes, but have any
Bianca Garcia: Okay, let me see. Maybe I'll sit right here.
Bianca Garcia: That's one thing about the phone and computer. It just makes it a little bit more difficult. Alrighty.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Two things I taught you all about the Vegas nerve that's biology. Did you also notice that this breathing know Joe takes all your concentration
Gwenevere Abriel: So just imagine that you're having a perceived threat which means probably you are worried about something, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Worried, that's a common one for people that identify as anxious or I have an anxiety or panic. History
Gwenevere Abriel: There worrying and projecting into the future. That's what the minds job is to do it worries. No worries. No worries. No worries for you to kind of project in well this this hypothesis might be true. Let's think about that for a while, it tends to go to the negative
Gwenevere Abriel: But this breath, if you can remember to do the belly breathing. We'll call it belly breathing, because that might be an easier way for you to remember the belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if you can remember to do the belly breathing. It takes your mind off of whatever you were thinking about because it takes so much concentration. The mind actually does want to do one thing at a time. Well, we're not actually that great at multitasking.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, yeah, we're not, we can do a bunch of things really poorly. A few things moderately but we can do one thing pretty well.
Gwenevere Abriel: The mind wants to focus on one thing. So when you do this, difficulty breathing, which is not a natural breath and nobody's going to ask you to do it all the time you do it for a few cycles five cycles 10 cycles, something like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Until you kind of feel that heart rate has gone down that breath right oh goodness. Yeah, that's really different, more sweating in your mind has a break. It was concentrated on feeling and I bet you didn't even remember to feel the era that knows I bet you were so worried about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And again, holding the breath. And how many count. Where is she at so it takes all of your mind. And not only that you are learning something new. Oh, that's your brains favorite thing to do to concentrate on learning something new. It loves it, it'll put all it's a
Gwenevere Abriel: Learning the new thing. So today, you had the experience of the parasympathetic nervous system working for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: In late, the biggest break the Vega break you also had information on something.
Gwenevere Abriel: And learning something you did three things to emotionally regulate and all it was was something you already know how to do, which is great. And I find that amazing
Yeah yeah so
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, this is so hard. Well, good, because it'll get you concentrating and off of the worry, worry, worry, worry, worry, worry
Gwenevere Abriel: When do you picture you might actually find this useful when what's a scenario. Let me add a little bit into your life. Like, when would this be useful for you.
Bianca Garcia: Definitely before I like have a panic attack or an anxiety tech and I usually always do the breathing, but this one I'm obviously I've never done this before and I i feel like this might help better
Bianca Garcia: Than you know because I tried to just, like, you know, calming down breathing one yeah just regular so maybe it's my work better.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, cuz look at the science behind that you've probably been doing your breathing a little bit gets down to the bottom.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you've been doing the breathing up here. And that's, that's pretty good. That's part you take a break and you focus on breath. That's smart. But when it's also very difficult
Gwenevere Abriel: To you getting your mind off of this threat response, whatever it is, it's going on, you've got some perceived threat. When you are in a relaxed body, the messages. We're okay. We want that contradiction.
Gwenevere Abriel: Contradicts whatever rational thought or maybe it's a memory that just kind of intruded into your life or you have this worst case scenario. Just heard some bad news. Okay, we want
Bianca Garcia: To
A relaxed.
Gwenevere Abriel: We want relaxed vigilance, we still want to be around aware of our surroundings. Right. Still have really vigilance, but in a relaxed body that's sort of the ideal some awakened.
Gwenevere Abriel: But we're in folders are relaxed or back is relaxed, we're just kind of chill in our body row right but we're awake and work taken in new information.
Gwenevere Abriel: The second that you can get that body to relax it sends a message will be okay.
Bianca Garcia: All right, great.
Gwenevere Abriel: Very cool. Well, I'm excited for you. I hope you remember it. I'll probably be reminding you of it here and there, you'll hear about it in group because people use it to go to. It's typically
For people that
Gwenevere Abriel: Want to create
Gwenevere Abriel: Space and time between stimulus and response from people if they have like let's say they get irritable really quickly, they'll do the breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's time to think of other things to do besides yelling at someone throwing something getting mad right we create time with her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Blood then go to the brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where it wasn't before when you're in a stress response.
Gwenevere Abriel: All of the muscles.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are where they muscle groups and our
Gwenevere Abriel: Hands get cold, cold.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're in a stress response. But when you do this, breathing blood goes to the frontal cortex. It's not just in those big muscles ready to fight or run
Gwenevere Abriel: That's exciting.
Gwenevere Abriel: We need all of our brain medicating with itself, all the different parts communicating
Bianca Garcia: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: So a lot goes on with that. I mean, it's just like what it just is so important.
Bianca Garcia: It's awesome. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And don't be shy. If you forget it. Don't give yourself a hard time you have a busy, busy.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll probably go back and I'll say, hey,
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you do the belly breathing. If you didn't. That's okay. I'll read. I'll go over, they may consider putting sticky notes different places. If you want to help yourself. Remember, like if you tend to get kind of panicked in the kitchen or in your car, you might want to put a sticky note.
Gwenevere Abriel: Box freeze or belly. Breathe in the four count in Hell for for whole for myself or for
Bianca Garcia: Okay, that's a good idea.
Bianca Garcia: Yes, so
Gwenevere Abriel: For you, just so you can get to know you a little bit. Tell me some stories about when you've kind of had some panic attacks when it's been kind of rough on you.
Bianca Garcia: I was like, possibly among a half to go. Um, I really don't know how it comes about, like, I don't like you know i mean obviously they're like you said, we just worry but like I could feel myself. Like if it's coming down and I have learned techniques are coping.
Bianca Garcia: Mechanisms to help me like I'll try to like walk around, or I'll do the breathing, but not this breathing. So like I said, I think it's pretty wild me a lot, and I just tried to calm myself down, and if not, then obviously like I tried to calm myself down to avoid to take my
Bianca Garcia: My as needed medication and I tried to do that. But if it doesn't get to that point. And I'm like, already in the process. Then I take my medication.
Gwenevere Abriel: Anything cognitive So cognitive a synonym for cognitive is thought
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you done any typically therapists will give you a positive thought to think an affirmation or something. Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me check in on the negative one.
Bianca Garcia: When you're having a panic.
Gwenevere Abriel: Attack. What do you believe
Bianca Garcia: Honestly, the worst. Yeah.
Bianca Garcia: Whatever that's
Bianca Garcia: What's up, I don't know, just like what can happen or, you know, what's next, or I don't know it's just sometimes it's just it seems crazy to me, Mike.
Bianca Garcia: Worry about that. But yeah, it could be anything. Little to anything big like any could just be anything like just, I don't know if any little thing.
Bianca Garcia: That the mind thinks, and you're like wait, like if something's going on like the kids are sick or something. And I'm like, Oh my gosh, and it just escalates, I guess from there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yep. So when you have multiple maybe competing priorities, like I need to attend to the kids. But I was also really need to put this dinner together. I also really need to drive to an appointment when there's competing needs at the same time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that what it feels like it's overwhelming. Is that one of them.
Bianca Garcia: Yeah, could be. It could be general things as well. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: All things. So let's say the moment that you become conscious in the morning you right you know before you even open your eyes. Oh, I'm awake.
Gwenevere Abriel: My eyes are no but I know I'm awake. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I'm conscious
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you experience distress early in the day is that
Bianca Garcia: Sometimes, yeah. It just depends. Let's like let's say our brakes are giving out and I'm like, Oh, man. We need to get this die or like our cars broken down, you know, just certain stuff or we're going to be laying
Bianca Garcia: Just, you know, just everything and everything.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, it's important to have brakes.
Bianca Garcia: Well, they were like they were already like he could hear them. So I was like, oh my gosh.
Bianca Garcia: It, but they're done. We already got that done, but when it was sounding like when you start for set hearing them.
Bianca Garcia: And I know we still have time to get them, but it's still worries me because it's, you know, I'm like, we have to do it like right right now, even though we don't get the money till tomorrow. So it's just, it's just like, things like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you ended up getting it done right, you got the brakes fixed
Gwenevere Abriel: And how many days in between. Oh my god. I remember that one. Oh my gosh, we knew those bricks and how many days went by before they actually got fixed
Bianca Garcia: It was like a day. A day and a half, you gotta fix to following day in the morning. So yeah, wasn't much
Gwenevere Abriel: What did you do to make sure that everybody was safe during that day and a half.
Bianca Garcia: Oh, well I didn't drive. I just took him to school and came back and that's it. I mean go anywhere.
Bianca Garcia: But I just like China, like in my mind, I'm like, I'll be saving them. And so I can pick them up and drop them off to school because we're so close to school. There's no bus.
Bianca Garcia: So we have to pick them up and drop them off. So I said, Okay, just drop them off and come right back home. So that's what I did and ID.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you were driving
Bianca Garcia: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: And do you have just curious manual transmission
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you know how to use the downshift to to break
Bianca Garcia: Oh no, it's not manual. Sorry, it's automatic.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Bianca Garcia: But yes, I do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, even on an automatic you can pull it back to second, you're not. I mean,
Bianca Garcia: Typically
Gwenevere Abriel: A little bit of a break.
Bianca Garcia: Mm hmm. Yeah. I would coast day. I wouldn't really I wasn't going like, you know, where you could go and then stop. No, I was like coasting or I didn't really have to press the gas as a break as much
Bianca Garcia: And it's really, it's a really slow lane from here to the school. I mean, obviously you have to go school speed limit. So yeah, that helped out a lot as well. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So ultimately you. Was this your idea, your solution. I'll still drive them, but I'll do it in this way, you just described. Was this your idea.
Bianca Garcia: Yeah, yeah. I mean, I didn't want to keep pressing a break or, you know, I don't know, I, that's what I thought. Yeah, but yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you ended up coming up with a solution and then the break. Scott fixed
Bianca Garcia: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: This might seem like an odd question, but what do you think the worrying did for you for that day and a half.
Bianca Garcia: Law didn't help at all. I mean, I was so worried is
Gwenevere Abriel: Finance. I know, I know I'm testing the waters here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Play with me. What did the worrying, who for you.
Bianca Garcia: Oh I stressed me out more overwhelmed me put it made me think about safety. I was just, it was a mess. I didn't like it at all.
Gwenevere Abriel: I didn't do any
Bianca Garcia: Good, yeah.
Bianca Garcia: Right. What, what could it do, I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, sometimes the answer is different. So we're finding out
Gwenevere Abriel: Look again didn't do anything that helped you with the solution.
Bianca Garcia: Did it do anything to help me with the solution.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, it's a weird question, hang on to yourself there.
Bianca Garcia: I'm like,
I know
Gwenevere Abriel: This is only the beginning. I asked a really weird question.
Bianca Garcia: Thank you for the heads up.
Bianca Garcia: Well,
Bianca Garcia: Yeah, I mean, it obviously helped me come up with a solution.
What did
Bianca Garcia: Well, in my brain. I think it was until we got
Bianca Garcia: Through that
Gwenevere Abriel: You're doing great. That's what THERAPY DOES right it pushes sort of was familiar to going into a space of uncertainty and like, Oh, wow.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we'll be doing that quite a bit. I wanted to see how you would handle sort of this kind of question. So let's let's visit it one more time. You're doing great.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no way you can fail at this as a client.
Gwenevere Abriel: No way to fail.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's look at it one more time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's flip it around.
Gwenevere Abriel: What would have happened if the stress wasn't there for that day and a half, don't answer right away. Just sit with it with that question in the absence of that worry
Gwenevere Abriel: And my brakes need fixing what would it have gone on.
During that day and a half.
Gwenevere Abriel: Would you have maybe done the same thing driven them.
Bianca Garcia: without the worry. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: The solution may have been the same, you would have come up with the solution.
Bianca Garcia: Yeah, definitely. Yeah, I mean, I don't think anybody else would drive recklessly would be like going and stopping pressing. You know, I don't think anybody would with the brakes like that. So yeah, I think it would be the same.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now go in or personally. Now we're going to expand this this question a little bit broader. This one was just around you're coming up with a solution. We've played with it may not have been unnecessary recipe for the solution.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're familiar with how to get around, but it may not be necessary necessary recipe. Now let's try it on. Same question.
With
Gwenevere Abriel: Without this, this anxiety this stress, what would have happened for the day and a half.
Bianca Garcia: With
Gwenevere Abriel: Calling your husband with your husband without the stress.
Bianca Garcia: What would it have been the day and a half without him. No.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me try again. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So now I want you to think interpersonal you're in a relationship with the common law husband. I'm going to call him husband, you're in a relationship with your husband, but this day, you did today a little differently. I'm not going to do the stress thing today. I've already got a plan.
Gwenevere Abriel: How might the relationship with your husband have changed. If you weren't stressed.
And anxious
Bianca Garcia: Well, I would think it made it a little bit more easier on either ones emotionally mental
Bianca Garcia: Mental mentally dealing with stuff on the on that day. I guess it would have been
Gwenevere Abriel: Idea how is it typically when you're stressed with him. What's it. How's it usually turn out when you're in an anxiety response with your husband, what ends up happening.
Bianca Garcia: Oh, nothing, just, I just need some space. I just
Bianca Garcia: We usually it I become a little better at handling stress and he is like I come up with a solution gave me So Gary, but like I could
Bianca Garcia: I just tried to know. I feel like I take it better. Like I could be caught more calm about it. I don't know.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's, I have a lot to learn. I have a lot to learn about him. I don't know if he's in recovery to if he's got what's going on with him. I have no idea. So lots and lots to learn, but we're starting. We got to start from somewhere.
Gwenevere Abriel: So do you remember, and then we'll kind of bring this session to a close with this. Do you remember me telling you about that when you have a relaxed body.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, actually, this is probably new information that the oxygen demand from your heart goes down so you don't have to
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't have to breathe fast. The heart is like, oh, I don't need as much oxygen. We're not going to be running three miles to get away from the tiger. So I don't need you all to be brave and so deep and we're all right we're right we're right so
Gwenevere Abriel: That blood doesn't have to just go to the large muscles. It can now make its way to the different parts of the brain where it leaves. Typically when you're in anxiety is it leaves prefrontal cortex part of your brain, the one that comes up with solutions.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so you know how you just said, my husband doesn't do some good when he's in a stress response and you to me to everyone. The blood doesn't get here. And so all it's offline.
Gwenevere Abriel: He can't think is clearly so you know I need to go chill to come up with a solution. You already know that that's fantastic.
Gwenevere Abriel: With this new breathing, you'll be able to have a relaxed body that blood will get up here to the prefrontal cortex and you will be able to come up with even more ideas brainstorming, you're going to have access to now reasoning.
Gwenevere Abriel: Logical planning part of your brain that you need to come up with a solution, it creates morose telling you about time that breath creates time that if you stayed in an anxious body and anxious, mind you won't have access to, because of course
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, all the blood is going to stay in these large muscle groups and you'll be in the stress response. So there's so many good reasons to chill.
Bianca Garcia: Yeah. Awesome. That's, that's the thing that that's something you learned something every day and I'm glad you taught me that today because
Bianca Garcia: That is a good thing. That's, that's obviously makes sense because you know when people are, you know, like not chill. They, they don't really, they're not thinking rational and I always say them like you need to chill out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here.
Bianca Garcia: Yeah, I know, I probably get more mad right
Gwenevere Abriel: It does. Yeah. Okay. So we covered a lot of stuff. And I also had a chance. And thank you for kind of working with me a little bit on this, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: I got to see a little bit of flexibility you tried on a new way of thinking for a moment. And that's sort of playing a little bit with analysis. It's playing with reasoning and self reflection.
Bianca Garcia: Do you do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: On your own sometimes do you reflect on your own personal growth and
Bianca Garcia: Definitely
Bianca Garcia: Yes.
Bianca Garcia: So we'll be doing will be doing that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Another thing that we might do if if it seems like it's a good fit is we might be doing things like image might be exploring some imagery
Gwenevere Abriel: In order to have a resource and grounding for you. We might also do imagery as a sense of safety, so that we can do some analysis, maybe have some work in your past. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to create safety. So I'm all about that. I'm all about emotion regulation. Absolutely. And we want to create safety before
Gwenevere Abriel: And start mucking around with the psychological history. First, I want you to feel like, Okay, I know where to go. If I get in distress in your mind. I want to create that for you. And a lot of that is imagery
Gwenevere Abriel: And so, yes, it will be tapping into the right brain, which is, imagine this, I'll say, or, you know, imagine this person or this quality or this safe space for example, so that we will be your imagination.
Gwenevere Abriel: Another thing that we might be doing is, if you're open to it. I found over the last two months that I'm able
Gwenevere Abriel: To em dr in here. I didn't know that I could do it, but it still works, which is really cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: Em dr is an eye movement.
Gwenevere Abriel: desensitization reprocessing technique that accesses the left and right hemisphere of the brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: It may be relevant for us, it may not always talk about it. Educate you've seen kind of the way I did the belly breathing. I'll tell you, whatever it is, I know I want you to have it. I don't keep anything for myself. Whenever I got yours.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm we may do that, there also might be times when we do
Gwenevere Abriel: In our file work.
Gwenevere Abriel: You might be
Gwenevere Abriel: Talking to an empty chair.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know and remember you can always laugh at.
Gwenevere Abriel: Me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Always make fun of me. I don't take it personally. I have a lot of tread marks from being put under the bus don't care used to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because the truth of the matter is, these techniques work.
Gwenevere Abriel: People kind of resolve the trauma history developmental trauma and work through anxiety conditions.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if it works. I want to make it available through you, you can always laugh at me. Giggling is a great way to get through something until I get sort of comfortable. I don't, I don't get offended.
Bianca Garcia: Ready to know
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's put
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's put this box or belly breathing to use. See if you can remember to do it when you wake up. See if you can remember, at least once a day. And right before you go to bed, those three times. Then we we have some more neural connections and maybe it will be remembered.
Gwenevere Abriel: Morning. As soon as consciousness hits you. You like how do I do that building thing stick my moon. How do we get that belly going so right practice it in the middle of the day, baby.
Gwenevere Abriel: Crying is making me cookie dough.
Gwenevere Abriel: Breathing and love that thing, but that crying. So, and then again right before you go to sleep. So that would be sort of an invitation, sort of, kind of like homework.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let's pick another time to meet. Would you be comfortable with. I'm Same time next Tuesday at
Gwenevere Abriel: 1pm
Bianca Garcia: Yes, that's fine.
Bianca Garcia: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you have medication bridge to today. Should I be sending a message to your doctor.
Bianca Garcia: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me rephrase that. Are you going to have a medication to get to group.
Bianca Garcia: Oh, I don't know. Let me see what he gave me I know he gave that to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: People that are brand new.
Gwenevere Abriel: Occasion is bridge between group and individual than group than individual and I tend to send a message to this program slack saying, hey, Bianca showed up and he takes it from there. I don't say much else. He works it out. I just kind of covered the tendencies.
Bianca Garcia: Okay, I believe I got it. The 21st. So, so, and he only gave me a four days, I believe.
Gwenevere Abriel: So look at your medication.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you get your
Bianca Garcia: One second. Let me see something
Bianca Garcia: No. Yeah, no, I only have two days, two nights.
Bianca Garcia: So that covers. I think the four days since he gave you
Gwenevere Abriel: Some notice Bianca number of my my original question is medication bridged to today, I think it was
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah. So in other words, in early phase of treatment. Most people are motivated to make sure they don't run out of their medication until you like really dig this psychotherapy thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's this sort of part of a positive reinforcement with the medication. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to message is it is a doctor all women are all brielle that you have Doctor isn't a woman or a man
Gwenevere Abriel: Man. Okay, so I've got it right here. So, Bianca attended her individual counseling.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: When's your next group.
Bianca Garcia: Friday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, cool. And that's what he'll do will probably give you enough to get to their Bianca, when you have consistent attendance and you show up for individual therapy. Keep that appointment don't know dentist appointment no little login
Gwenevere Abriel: Will check your other appointments. Don't say yes in here unless you really are. Sure, you can keep them.
Bianca Garcia: Group.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you put together a few weeks of it. We're going to change it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Every week, it'll be group to group and then it'll be every two weeks, it will get easier. It's not going to stay this difficult all the time. Okay, it will get better, but all we have is this medication. I don't have free movie tickets to give you. That's all I got.
Bianca Garcia: NO WORRY.
Gwenevere Abriel: See you on Friday. I just sent the message will see and group you keep your eye out for a little message from right. I think it's a coupon or the pharmacy or something comes through.
Bianca Garcia: If he's
Gwenevere Abriel: Getting messages. Sometimes he's busy but call your pharmacy and see if it's in, and I'll see on Friday.
Bianca Garcia: Thank you will see you then. Bye bye.